"Sentiment (1-negative, 2-neutral, 3-positive)"	Sentence
2	Katherine Fogertey Can you help us also just to remind us on the AUVs for restaurants with Chipotlanes versus those without?
2	So is that something that you could fact out for the street as we go into 2020 and 2021?
1	We could potentially see some fluctuation in these borrowing levels in subsequent quarters depending on further disposition timing.
3	"Congrats to you both, by the way."
2	You may now disconnect.
	And I think that was a very important strategic decision that we made.
	"And, third point, net outflows have been more elevated post-close."
	And so we are now actively working with MassMutual with our products and our solutions that we trying to understand what is a good fit within their network.
3	"For example, we introduced a new staffing and scheduling system to optimize labor allocations based on partner preferences and predictive analytics."
2	"David Bergman Thank you, Jonathan."
2	And I think the team understands that we're going to have a different profile in Healthcare when we are on the other side of the biopharma transaction.
	"So I think as I’ mentioned in the past, that $45 million could be an upside to the overall modeling and the fee rate deterioration that we’ve provided in terms of deal economics."
	"Secondly, we are seeing lots of always-on advertising."
1	"On to Channel Development, revenue declined 6% in Q4."
3	The customers we've seen they've embraced the choices provided by these multiple redemption tiers.
2	I talk about the future of retail.
2	Our actual results could differ materially from those contemplated by our forward-looking statements and you should not consider our reported results as an indication of future performance.
2	The Q3 presentation is available on the website for your reference.
3	The SUPER lineup strengthens our leadership in the high end of the market and the response has been great.
2	"And it's really important to us in terms of how that has enabled us to think about segmentation as well this year, to some extent, but even more so going forward."
	"In Q2 below the line mark-to-market adjustments benefited GAAP EPS in the second quarter by approximately $0.10 and non-GAAP EPS by approximately $0.11, business outperformance in the quarter ,along with a lower than anticipated salesforce.org settlement charge benefited GAAP and non-GAAP EPS by approximately $0.08."
	"Larry Culp Good morning, Julian."
	"RTX, CUDA accelerated computing, AI, autonomous vehicles, the work we’re doing is important, impactful and incredibly fun."
	And then more tweets around the Bitcoin topic will appear in your timeline and you can go to your DASH and unfollow that topic at any point.
	So I know we’re not going to talk about specific guidance for 2020 here.
	"We built up a really big business that we’re very proud of In Japan, both with lots of people who use the service, great relationships with the largest agencies and having really connected with the advertisers with MAP and with video ads."
	"Yet the quarter, on your majors, you put up a $400 million positive, but more importantly you put up a $200 million positive on your carryovers."
	"We were pleased ad revenue growth rebounded to double-digits globally in September with the most pronounced recovery in the United States, advertiser sentiment remained strong."
	"Clearly, that strategy is working."
	Your line is now open.
	So we've got about 65% of our store base covered.
	Krista Bessinger Great.
	"Next, I want to briefly talk about the impact of our new labor agreement."
	"Thanks, guys."
	"But right now, we're encouraged that we are moving these customers to the Starbucks Rewards level."
	"And this is how, speaking at a retail level, I think as what you’re addressing."
	Operator Your next question comes from the line of Brian Johnson with Barclays.
	Some of that is the costing improvements we've been driving through with the supply chain efficiencies and the new go-to-market process.
	"John Shrewsberry Yes, I think it's a good point, there's a real opportunity for, for taking best-in-class and then making it much more efficient."
	I'll start this off and I'll hand it off to Dave and he'll give you a little color on the margins.
	"It's just that we're now able to use data, like Kevin said, much more purposefully to actually understand what matters to this consumer."
	"We're seeing begin to improve overtime, but there isn't anything else that we know of in terms of dis-synergy, and if anything, again, we're seeing more positive revenue synergies that take on potential for the products in the C Caps in Europe for example is a good real live flow coming in."
	They have a lot of consumer applications.
	Operator Our next question comes from the line of Ross Sandler of Barclays.
	Good evening.
	We're going to continue to push the organization to continue to find cost opportunities.
	"Jamie Miller Hi, Andy."
	"All of this, of course, centers around three critical aspects of the brand – making great product that is authenticated to the power of sport, magnified by incredible storytelling and delivered by a team that loves this brand."
	And so we’re seeing a lot of excitement and a lot of development for edge AI.
	I’m often asked what’s next.
	"Infrastructure expense increased due to higher equipment expense reflecting the $105 million impairment of capitalized software, predominantly in our wealth and investment management business as well as higher occupancy expense."
	Look it's a great question and let me hit on a couple of points and I'll have Greg pitch into.
	Jennifer Lowe Great.
	It's been improving in the current market.
	"Starting with direct-to-consumer which came in slightly less than expected, third quarter revenue was down 1%, driven primarily by results in North America."
	"I guess the first one is Jensen, if you have any, I guess, high-level qualitative commentary on how the new SUPER upgrades of your Turing platform have been received in the market and how you might think about them progressing through the year."
	My expectation is that this is going to continue to be a big growth opportunity for us.
	"We work with more than 44,000 non-profit and higher education customers and our employees have given more than 4.3 million volunteer hours and we delivered nearly $300 million in grants which is pretty amazing."
	Dan Fannon Okay.
	"You mentioned the 8,500 advisors, you also in the past talked about the general account."
	Over half will be located in the U.S. and China combined with China delivering approximately 600 net new stores representing mid-teens growth versus the prior year.
	cRPO grew 23% in dollars and 25% in constant currency and we continue to put up solid organic revenue growth across each of our clouds and in our geographies.
	"Please go ahead, your line is open."
	It clear that your end run rate for expenses would be the $2.905 billion.
	"When you think about CapEx, to your question there, a couple of things that we've changed a little bit."
	So just that alone reduces the amount of time that a partner at the bar would need to take if they're preparing a beverage that has three shots of espresso in it.
	We do expect to continue to make investments there in order to sustain strong comp growth even as we have accelerated our pace of development.
	So that's not been a problem to-date and it's really just a matter of people adopting the new approach to how you get your food in your car.
	"So wanted to just maybe ask about a different topic and I apologize I was on a little bit late at Allen if you addressed it, but any update on where you stand on the consent order and remediating the operational risks and controls, and it seems like there's a lot of blocking and tackling there in terms of all of the processes that you're looking at identifying risk and controls and were appropriate remediating those."
	Adam Jonas I appreciate it.
	"And for Q&A we will be joined by Roz Brewer, Chief Operating Officer and Group President Americas; John Culver, Group President, International Channel Development and Global Coffee and Tea."
	And then within renewables progress collections that's $0.5 billion down year-to-date and backlog is up materially.
	"And I think that is the significant reason why we're seeing transaction traffic growth, we're seeing comp growth and we're seeing momentum across all aspects of Starbucks."
	Our last question comes from Kenneth Lee with RBC Capital Markets.
	And probably the most important to really look at is the second half non-repeat of the Power charges.
	So I’m really excited about what the pipeline looks like and very delighted really about carne asada going through this whole process and then everybody executing with excellence.
	"It's built on our industry leadership and improving battery range and reducing battery cell powers per kilowatt hour, and we expect this progress to continue."
	We expect to add approximately 2000 net new Starbucks stores globally in fiscal 2020 a sequential improvement over fiscal 2019.
	"Betsy Graseck Hi, good morning."
	It’s in the proxy.
	Ned Segal Thanks for the question BitcoinMunger.
	"Marty Flanagan I do want to come back to the product rationalization, think of, it's a small thing, not a big thing."
	Brian Nowak Thanks for taking my questions.
	The second part of DRIVE includes an end-to-end AV development system.
	I do in fact.
	"First, is the one time non-cash settlement charge of $166 million related to Salesforce.org reseller agreement."
	"They need to predict customer behavior and anticipate their customer needs, and they need to build modern mobile apps quickly and deliver the right services at the right time on any device."
	"With his combination of comp growth and unit growth, we are expecting enterprise-level top line growth of 6% to 8% in fiscal 2020."
	"Jack Hartung I mean, it's early but, yes, we would expect to Chipotlanes are going to be a higher return than the average portfolio."
	Andy Barish Thank you.
	And we're seeing a lot of momentum with other clients as a result of those three areas that I kind of talked about and Marty talked about within the institutional side.
	"So, from a full-year perspective next year, that's all considered."
	"So these came up over the course of the quarter and it wasn’t one particular day, there were more than one of these things."
	We firmly believe that our accounting practices and disclosures were appropriate.
	"Our built-in quality level 4, which leads to first better health and safety and better quality as measured by two months and 12 months warranty performance."
	I’m not going to talk about future… Adam Jonas I do.
	"And it also shows us that when we show up in the right way as a brand to the end consumer in full price, with the entire breath of our innovation and our brand for them, they respond, which is very encouraging to us."
	"Number two, those machines have Internet of Things sensors built into them."
	Operator That concludes today's conference.
	"Hey, John, wanted to ask about deposits -- deposit pricing."
	"In fact, IDC also forecasts global spending on customer experience alone to reach $641 billion by 2022."
	So it's been about $775 million year-to-date through the third quarter.
	"Loren Starr So Ken, on the first point that the synergies, you're correct, there's the $2 billion New Mexico outflow that is to be expected in the fourth quarter."
	"Public sectors, higher education and financial services were among the key verticals driving growth this quarter."
	"But Mary, what do you think of a Corvette SUV?"
	Operator Thank you.
	"To address this, we went back to a feature only Twitter experts make use of lists."
	These elevated digital experiences are key drivers of accelerated growth in Starbucks Rewards membership in China and provides significant momentum for us to introduce further innovations in fiscal year 2020 as we work to constantly elevate the customer experience and reward loyalty.
	Are they all at full potential?
	"Labor costs for the quarter were 26.6%, a decrease of 60 basis points from last year."
	"As the strike continued, our teams work tirelessly to ensure we could ship as many vehicles as possible to our dealers."
	Emmanuel Rosner I was hoping you can provide a little bit more color on your underlying performance this year excluding the strike to the extent that's possible?
	"In other words, delivering the right stuff to the right place at the right time."
	"Kevin Johnson Pat, why don't you take that, if you could?"
	I was at our Lynn Massachusetts military engine plant recently and heard operators following an Action Work-Out talk passionately about how lean triggers cultural change and greater accountability.
	So that that is hopefully it helps answer your question.
	Eric Compton Okay.
	"This discipline will help us overcome the impact of this strike we continue launching our heavy-duty trucks, the new Cadillac sedan."
	"Unidentified Analyst Understood, thanks for the clarification."
	We have made great strides in our transformation.
	Operator Thank you.
	And we're leveraging these insights to optimize our labor deployment going forward.
	Marty Flanagan Thank you.
	Do you have that number?
	"We added Einstein translation, Einstein Voice, Einstein Vision."
	Operator Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
	We published a shareholder letter on our Investor Relations website and with the SEC about an hour ago and hope everyone had a chance to read it.
	"Mary Barra Well, I think it's a -- there is many different components of the labor force."
	All those things are going to help us make sure we optimize the workforce and optimize our manufacturing costs.
	Thank you for taking the question and a very nice quarter.
	"While we no longer recognize trust and investment fees from this business, we will continue to administer client assets for up to 24 months, and the buyer will pay us a fee for certain costs we incurred during this transition period."
	I think that's a fourth quarter event.
	"And I guess the other question that we get asked a lot about and I'm sure others do on the line is, how do you think about the margin tradeoff that come with that bigger TAM?"
	"But when we look at what drove DAU, it was lots of things, including that people who have used the service in the past are - but maybe hadn't made it a part of their daily lives are using it even more number one."
	"Kevin Plank Thank you, Ed."
	"What we wanted to really make sure is we've got the people and capability in place and I think we're seeing more and more confidence as our stability has gone up, and as we've opened new restaurants, they continue to open really well."
	In addition to that from a flexibility standpoint what we’ve model in our downturn assumption is the ability to adjust the level of workforce based on what’s happening in the industry.
	FedEx will use Service Cloud Einstein in their call centers to drive agent productivity with AI-powered recommendations in Einstein analytics to get a deeper understanding of their customers needs across their business.
	And I'm also really delighted about the unlock that I think Chipotlanes is going to present for us from our new unit opportunities going forward.
	I think we're encouraged by what we see in Power Conversion.
	"Could you please provide us an update on the income and products in China like earlier in the year you were relatively optimistic about the sales and prospect potential from new launches including the first office, I think so called GEM Architecture."
	"Maybe you could talk a little bit at a higher level how the Under Armour approach to building product, product lines and platforms has evolved from the earlier days and how your role will fit in?"
	I’ll take those.
	Orders of $5.1 billion were up 1% reported and 2% organically.
	good morning.
	You mentioned Jack's comments.
	"Ken Worthington Hi, good morning."
	But do keep in mind that we hope that all the people we’ve hired this year will stay with us next year.
	"And at SIGGRAPH, we now have 27 different laptops shipping and more coming."
	"I want to be clear is that I love Under Armour and it is now today, tomorrow, will always remain my full-time priority and job."
	"In hyperscale portion, we continue to be impacted by relatively weak overall spending at a handful of CSPs."
	Operator From Gordon Haskett we have John Inch.
	"Inside the most transformative three-year chapter in our history, as my direct partner, Patrik has helped strengthen the foundational elements of our current vision, mission, and values, and co-architected the strategic playbook we are currently executing against."
	But even if they're not rising there's still leverage working against us in a declining rate environment.
	The next phase of AI is what we call vertical industry enterprise AI.
	"Equipment revenue was up 11%, driven by the delivery of 455 LEAP units, up 152 from last year, partially offset by CFM56 units down 75%."
	We don't see anything out of the new ordinary in chicken.
	I’ll tell you they’re opening up nicely.
	You talked a lot about product and it sounds like you're going to be a lot more focused and that sounds where a lot of your passion lies.
	We are restarting our operations very close to year end and the speed of production ramp and timing factors are very difficult to predict at this point.
	It looks like a pretty stable cost of goods sales environment for next year.
	"NVIDIA RTX technology has reinvigorated the computer graphics industry by enabling researchers and developers to take a leap in photorealistic rendering, augmented reality and virtual reality."
	It’s a large part of our business.
	So we've viewed that the historical gross sales.
	"This new group is under the leadership of Andy Rowe, who led Consumer Segments and Consumer Strategy for the last two years."
	And we've seen significant improvement also within the Henley fixed income side.
	That’s very helpful.
	Josh Pokrzywinski Just want to follow up on the Power order comment Jamie that you expect a lot of that to flip into the fourth quarter.
	"Jack Dorsey Thanks, Ross."
	We’re mentioning it more and more because it’s such an exciting book market for us is notebooks.
	"With that, I'll turn over the call to Pat and look forward to taking your questions later in the call."
	Allen Parker Yes.
	John Culver Yes.
	"Patrik Frisk Thanks, Kevin."
	"So, Under Armour is ready to run."
	We are seeing the LEAP/Passport impact in the transition but still largely very healthy at Aviation.
	"Patrik Frisk Yeah, sure."
	"So again, it has been a headwind."
	"However, we are prohibited from doing so."
	Customers are demanding that their interact with these companies in new ways.
	So you had some benefit from the change in the gift card breakage.
	"Our focus on MAP is much more intense, and something that we intend to get right."
	"And then second, bigger picture."
	"One of the things that gives us a lot of confidence is again going back to my opening remarks, we do believe Twitter works best when people see it more, as an interest network, they're able to quickly find and follow their interest and right now if we do a lot of work to find and follow related accounts."
	So let me wrap things up.
	Good evening.
	So the first question around cost from the bugs.
	"So our optimism, even though it’s very early is very strong and the economics with even a modest increase in sales at that kind of an incremental investment is going to be very attractive."
	"So I'll just give a brief overview of the results and Loren make a couple of comments, and again, we'll get the questions, so we’ll have more time to have a discussion."
	"And you can think of traditional investment capabilities that would be available, some of the other wire houses."
	"One is the sale of our ownership interest in Thailand in fiscal 2019, and how that extends then, with its impact into fiscal 2020."
	"Does that include the truck franchise, pickup truck industry and sales there still do not be strong throughout 2019."
	"But most importantly, we understand that our criticality toward success, the definition of what will actually get us there, is our ability to focus on ourselves to block out the noise and to keep marching forward and always going through."
	We'll secure the future of our Detroit-Hamtramck assembly plant with an all-new electric pickup truck that builds on established truck leadership.
	"At the end of the third quarter, we achieved 105% of our synergy target or $501 million of run rate expense reductions for the combined organizations."
	And we're very encouraged by what's happening in our performance run and also in our women's training footwear.
	Now let's take a closer look at North America.
	"So we're in our early test right now, but we do think this is a very strong feature and approach for us and I think we'll add a ton of capability and strength to the service."
	"Second, a few comments on G&A."
	"And as you can see, we had just incredible quarter here."
	Let me provide just a few examples of our most recent progress.
	So we've guided to a range of 6% to 8%.
	Net earnings per share was $1.08 loss.
	"And the way to think about data center, our data center business consists of hyperscale training, internal training, hyperscale inference, cloud computing – and that’s hyperscale, and that cloud is a public cloud."
	"And number two, we’re seeing a steady improvement in throughput aided by training, focus and providing our teams with an easy to use dashboard that provides greater visibility on performance."
	"There are, short-term, a few puts and takes here and there."
	Thank you for participating.
	"And yet, when we created CUDA in our GPUs, we went from 1 CPU core or one processor core to a few to now, in the case of large-scale systems, millions of processor cores."
	"On a product line basis Healthcare System orders were flat organically, driven by growth in Life Care Solutions, ultrasound and services offset by imaging largely due to China market dynamics and longer sales cycles on larger deals in the U.S. Life Sciences orders were up 10% organically."
	"We see evidence of Power stabilizing, but we're working through a number of nonoperational headwinds there."
	You also alluded to the fact that you were seeing a positive mix shift higher in terms of the price points of this RTX cycle.
	You guys saw some growth in Q2 driven primarily by enterprise.
	"Sharon Zackfia Hi, good afternoon."
	So as we talk to these executives about the future of growth you can't have growth without the great customer experience and that starts with service.
	But it is safe to assume that there will be a year-over-year headwind from a full size SUV perspective.
	"Patrik Frisk Thank you, Jay."
	"We’re expecting to fill open positions in Q4 and therefore, we believe our underlying G&A support will get to around $74 million to $75 million in Q4."
	These bugs affected our ability to target ads and share data with measurement and add partners.
	"We still see, you know, even when you look at the multitude of projections by 2030, is it 15%, is it 30% all in, that means the bells of the vehicles being sold in the country into rail combustion engine vehicles."
	Please go ahead.
	As a reminder our Q2 operating margin EPS results were affected by the settlement of our reseller agreement with Salesforce.org.
	"How are they impacting the market from a pricing perspective, wholesale order perspective?"
	"This leadership team has a proven track record of successfully navigating complex business issues, confronting headwinds and capitalizing on opportunity."
	Marty Flanagan You're welcome.
	"So what we've seen is giving people the access through ordering ahead, so that they don't have to get other car is a nice unlock for the Chipotle business so that we don't have to provide the additional complexity of running a traditional drive through."
	"Just to follow-up on the UK flows, I'm looking at it from a broader perspective."
	Thank you.
	"Because of our partners, we are achieving even higher levels of customer loyalty and brand preference."
	Question-and-Answer Session Operator Thank you.
	"Thanks, John."
	"When you look into 2020, that is something that largely does not repeat or we don't expect it to repeat in terms of the planning cycle."
	"So, we believe that the type of product we're now putting into the marketplace, the fact that we have less old product on the shelves is helping drive the sales."
	Reconciliations between our GAAP and non-GAAP results and guidance can be found in our earnings press release.
	The 150-Star tier continues to see the majority of the redemption volume.
	"Second quarter operating cash flow was $436 million, down 5% year-over-year."
	"Direct to consumer revenue was down 1% to $463 million, which was slightly lower than expected due to continued traffic and conversion challenges, primarily in our North American outlet and e-commerce businesses."
	"The reason that as it kind of turned negative here, it’s been largely because of the volatile market that we’ve been in and some of the fundings have slowed just because of the uncertainty, work that we’re doing in Europe and UK have definitely slowed to some extent just because of the – sort of the risk off a behavior that we’re seeing is people want to understand what direction – things are going in."
	"In transactional, what is gaining revenue a bit here is some fulfillment issues and operations and we've mentioned some of the operational issues we've had earlier in the year."
	"Non-GAAP operating margin declined by 510 basis points to 37.6% in Q4, when excluding the 310 basis point impact related to streamline, Channel Development's operating margin declined 200 basis points in Q4 fiscal 2019, primarily due to an and unfavorable shift in revenue mix."
	You have to do that at the edge.
	"And what we're seeing clients do where if you go back two and three and four years, it was more of what product does a client want and what do we have doesn't match off much more."
	Our next question comes from Michael Cyprys with Morgan Stanley.
	"Now if we don't give them a good experience when they get there, they are going to leave and may not come back or may not come back for some time."
	Our net charge-off rate remains near historic lows at 27 basis points.
	Katherine Fogertey Great.
	And so I think RTX is really geared for growth.
	"So right now, they’re in app all of those experiments."
	"And so going into it, we knew the supply available would take us through November to early December."
	"Alexandra Walvis Good morning, guys."
	Junior lien mortgage loans were down $1.2 billion from the second quarter as pay downs continue outpaces new originations.
	It's just that you're applying a different tax rate than the weighted average tax rate on the strike impact.
	Katherine Fogertey Great.
	"Maybe not as much of a decline from '18 to '19, but versus a number of scenarios, but it seems to be that would seem to capture it."
	"We're also seeing very good, strong uptick with Dolce Gusto, in the Dolce Gusto platform."
	"Kevin Plank Erinn, let me just weigh in on that as well that I covered in my script."
	Ray tracing is taking the gaming industry by storm and have quickly come to define the modern era of computer graphics.
	"And same for kind of the receivable supply chain program and aero allowances and all that sort of stuff, is there a meaningful year-to-year timing difference there?"
	"This reinforces our belief that the Starbucks Experience, delivered by our partners is a key competitive advantage."
	"And just, I wanted to have a couple questions on Corvette."
	"So, Marc and I have actually been flying around the world quite a bit."
	"Dhivya Suryadevara From a North American standpoint, yes, it was a very strong quarter."
	"So, again, we have plenty to work with what’s on our plate right now."
	Operator Your next question comes from the line of Rod Lache with Wolfe Research.
	"First one for me, I wanted to ask about gross margin."
	We booked 3.1 gigawatts of orders for 17 gas turbines including five H units and two aeroderivative units and Gas Power services transactional orders were up across parts and repairs for multi-outage deals.
	But when we just add up the things that happened this July and August and when we compare them to last year and when we think about how we expected them to play out and how they ended up playing out.
	So that's why you see the step up here in the back half relative to the sales of spares to GECAS and others.
	Does the new unit guidance then implicitly state that you guys are slowing down the pace of new restaurant adds?
	"With that said, where the opportunity exist, we've done one, and not surprising, we saw positive result given for what Jack said earlier, when you get people more access with less friction, the order ahead business continues to take steps forward."
	Operator The next question is from Andy Barish with Jefferies.
	Or could there be folks then get hired out in California to work on cruise?
	"So, we're happy about it."
	A total of 27 RTX Studio models have been announced by major OEMs.
	"Turning to expenses on page 15, expenses increased from both the second quarter and a year ago, largely due to higher operating losses, primarily reflecting litigation accruals."
	"Greg McGreevey So look with MassMutual, again, I'd say early days, it's a very strong robust relationship and we're working through those multiple areas that we've talked about."
	"I wanted just Keith Block opinion on or perspective on potential synergies from the recent acquisitions particularly Tableau, given the success you guys have seen with MuleSoft over the past year, where should we expect sort of the biggest synergies?"
	"We're a good ways down the road, but I think it's fair to say that we have a substantial amount of additional work to do and of course at the same time we've designed and implemented and we're constantly working -- doing enhance our new risk management framework, and that's fundamentally transforming how we manage risk every day throughout the organization in a way that I would describe as much more comprehensive integrated and consistent, and at the same time, we're enhancing frontline risk, independent risk management and the audit function."
	"John Shrewsberry Yes, well, it's complicated, because there's a lot of things going into it include where rates go versus what the market is suggesting, what happens with loan pricing, deposit pricing, and a variety of things, but if we, in the various scenarios that we run thinking about, let's say, the 9/30 implied forward curve, which suggests Fed funds in the 170 area, 12/31 of this year the 10-year just under 170, and then a year forward, Fed funds in the 120 area and Fed funds still in the 170 -- pardon me, 10-year still in the 170 area."
	But that will be work that we all do together with Charlie after he arrives and then present conclusions at the right time.
	Jamie Miller Good morning.
	"And it affects companies from large industrials, transportation companies, retailers, you name it."
	"David Bergman Yeah, Jim."
	"Fortunate, I do want to spend on more time on this $2.9 billion, because I’m still actually a little confused by it, so I apologize, but my denseness."
	Thank you.
	But we actually do now 8.6 billion Einstein predictions a day using our market-leading artificial intelligence platform.
	Can you talk about how the sales and cost of the launch vehicles has extended relative to your expectation in China?
	"And we see that coming through, as we've refocused the team on price, higher-margin work."
	"I've had the opportunity to spend a great deal of time with Charlie, and I'm convinced that he has the right combination of experience, business savvy, and leadership ability to position Wells Fargo for an even more successful future."
	"Ned Segal Thanks, Mark."
	What do you think kind of resurrected that business?
	"As we look out to the fourth quarter, we expect lower earnings from Capital sequentially, driven by preferred dividend payments and lower asset sale gains."
	"We completed our rollout of Nitro Cold Brew across company-operated stores in the U.S., this summer and introduced new cold pumpkin beverage offering, the Pumpkin Cream Cold Brew."
	Thanks.
	And we believe that’s the right approach in creating an environment where our employees can thrive professionally as well as personally and be in a position to win not only today but also in the future.
	"Allen Parker Hi, Scott."
	"And then Larry, following up on your comment earlier about an uncertain macro environment, where do you think you're really seeing that in the business?"
	"And finally, we close our acquisition of Salesforce.org in the quarter and we continue to seek incredible demand in the non-profit and education verticals."
	Over time as you can see over the last several years we've been expanding that.
	Aviation is negatively impacted by the MAX grounding and that has largely been offset by timing-related items.
	"So as we move forward together, we’re going to continue to build on the strong foundation we’ve laid and share and allow them to share on the future success of the Company."
	Can you remind us of your latest estimate of North America breakeven expressed in terms of U.S. light vehicle SAR and whether the contract changes that breakeven while?
	"I guess I would just – quick reminder, the Q3 growth rate down 12%."
	"So that's generally the headwind, tailwinds the remaining cost saving so far, we've achieved close to $2.4 billion of cost savings and the remaining cost savings are going to be realized over a period of time, according to our revised guidance."
	You break that down I think what we saw really was a fair bit of encouraging news in terms of the way the team was delivering the step up in volume particularly onshore here in the U.S. and some of the progress that we're making on our cost productivity programs.
	Excitement around these titles is tremendous.
	Thanks for taking the questions.
	"And you could just imagine every single hyperscaler racing to go make this possible because recently, we had some important breakthroughs in machine learning language models."
	There's a significant amount of change that's happening from the current generation to the next generation.
	"And how should we be thinking about the cadence for GM Financial going forward and what that might, may mean for releasing cash from that business?"
	"If I recall, there was a pretty big order from Ohio that came out."
	"Ken Worthington Okay, thank you."
	"And considering now that you have full Turing lineup as well as content truly coming to the forefront here, how do you think about trends beyond the October quarter?"
	Jamie Miller Yes.
	But we've got to do the engineering work and make the case to them better than we are today.
	"The BERT model that I mentioned earlier is really, really an important development, and it’s caused a large number of derivatives that has improved upon it and so near-term conversational AI inference."
	"Let me give you a couple of examples, which can help them come to life."
	Mark Hawkins You're welcome.
	I give Russell Stokes here a ton of credit.
	This is the artificial intelligence and machine learning that Kevin referred to earlier.
	So maybe talk about how the macro is kind of informing your thinking right now.
	"Then, your second question was around the new term that you came up with, I don't think I think about it as just about the events that happened."
	"With that, I'll turn it over to Patrik."
	Thank you.
	And these partners continue to invest in their Salesforce practices.
	And that's why we're optimistic about the future.
	And then I have one follow-up.
	There's clearly a lot of concern out there as to where the economy is globally and what are we going to be dealing with in 2020.
	It's about how you get recommendations and marketing after you've purchased something.
	We have a great initiative.
	"Relative to APAC, the 4% growth in Q3, we had always planned that this was going to be our lowest quarter of the year for APAC."
	So our emphasis so far has been on getting the vast majority of our sites should be on the end-cap.
	So maybe give more color there and how quickly you think you can improve that productivity on the service piece?
	We will lap this impact in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 at which point the benefit to our revenue and operating margin will already be embedded in our base.
	"And have laid the groundwork for what we expect will be another year of strong operating performance, in fiscal 2020."
	"John Murphy And Dhivya, in a competitive environment, have you seen any deterioration there?"
	"Jen-Hsun Huang Yes, Toshiya, I got to tell you, I’m less good at normal pre – near-term productions than I am good at thinking about long-term dynamics."
	"And top of mind for them is digital transformation, which begins and ends with the customer."
	"And then, I have a follow-up for Kevin."
	Greg McGreevey Good question.
	I have two for Colette.
	"Larry Culp  Hi, Andy."
	"Do you expect, going forward, that you'll be able to reverse that trend?"
	They are made out in the field.
	We haven't broken out MAP as a percentage of the business.
	"And then second, we hear from advertisers that their spend bounces around month-to-month, I know it's event driven."
	Question-and-Answer Session Operator [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Douglas Anmuth of JPMorgan.
	We're pleased to be raising our full year FY 2020 revenue to $16.75 billion to $16.90 billion for full year growth of approximately 26% to 27%.
	"Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us for today's discussion of our third quarter results."
	"While staying on the topic of flows but moving away from U.S. retail, I’d like to point out that we continue to see a strong institutional pipeline."
	Our store development in the U.S. was also quite healthy as we grew net new stores by 3% in fiscal over 19 even with the higher level of closures relative to the prior year as we repositioned our store portfolio for future growth.
	And the enthusiasm has been great.
	Please proceed with your question.
	Peak intra-quarter short-term funding was $4.9 billion down from $13.7 billion last year and also flat to the second quarter.
	"It's important to note that while our external Industrial leverage target is net debt-to-EBITDA we also evaluate other measures internally including gross debt-to-EBITDA, and we will ultimately size our deleveraging actions across a range of measures."
	"And with hyperscalers racing to harness recent breakthroughs in conversational AI, we see growing engagements in training as well as interactive conversational inference."
	"And we've had some headwinds around performance that we're beginning to see sort of a turnaround and particularly in sort of recent months where you can see just how strong the comeback or the pullback in performances when we see some release on some of these macro topics for example, what we're seeing in terms of what's going on in Europe and the UK has a big impact on our UK business."
	When we think about how that comes through in future periods it is really difficult to predict.
	It will be a partnership.
	But I think it's really holistic.
	And that's the value they see in our Customer 360 platform.
	"We are going to continue to look at some of the other integration opportunities really around tech, run operations as well."
	"John Shrewsberry Hi, David."
	Kevin Plank Thank you very much.
	"We may reference certain non-GAAP financial information including adjusted and currency-neutral terms, which are defined in this morning's release."
	What do you see in the pricing sort of competitive landscape for pricing?
	This is Dave.
	Joe Moore Great.
	"Before we turn over the call to the operator for Q&A, I'd like to break from our typical company policy of not discussing any regulatory or litigation matters and briefly address an article published yesterday regarding an investigation by the SEC and the US Department of Justice."
	Your line is now open.
	"One last, if I may."
	You saw earlier in the week the IEA come out with a forecast that would suggest the renewables space could be a $1 trillion business over the next couple of decades.
	They use it for 3D content creation and high-definition video editing and image optimization and things like that.
	You're back in it with Alstom.
	"Thanks, Marty."
	"We think hydro can perform in line, if not better than competitors there."
	We're happy to be working constructively with the CMA as it conducts its review.
	That with a range of assumptions about loans and deposits probably gets us to down low-to-mid single digits in net interest income.
	"Starting as an apparel company, it had us adjusting to what does it mean to make footwear."
	"For the year, we reported top line growth of 7%."
	And I can’t make it fit in my head.
	"And it's about uses of cash, he says, can you address uses of cash going forward."
	"Leased financing increased $276 million from the second quarter, driven by growth in large ticket direct finance leases in equipment finance."
	"And while we’ve certainly realized some success in product-specific marketing efforts over the past couple of years, 2020 will be the first year since our transformation began that we will have the ability to put the right resources combined with the scale behind our brand marketing efforts."
	Ray traced games continue to gain momentum.
	"Salesforce is their number one CRM, and our Customer 360 platform is a leader in sales, in service, marketing, commerce, communities, integration, app dev and more."
	"But yes, we do expect our data center business to grow, and then we’ll see on the rest of our businesses as well."
	"Paul Lejuez Thanks, guys."
	"On slide 21, teller and ATM transactions declined 6% from a year ago reflecting continued customer migration to digital channels."
	"No, we certainly saw some softness there in the third quarter, Andy."
	"And the other aspect is, obviously, from a country mix standpoint, there's places where we, there's places that are more profitable and there are places that are less profitable, and we're going to direct the amount of inventory that we have towards the more profitable places as well."
	"As Marc said, we have an incredible opportunity ahead as more and more companies invest in their digital transformation."
	There's a lot that's underway as they look to manage that business closer to the customer while taking a good bit of cost out.
	The leadership team is in place.
	But really what this relentless sort of energy and probably mild paranoia of always thinking about what's next and how we can obsess on the next great product and for us to be the first to deliver it for you.
	"So first and foremost, we have led a lot of our work on the consumer side and how we think about our revenue products with number one, making sure that people have visibility into what data we’re using and also control over it."
	"If you want to take about it in terms of point of sale, where are you seeing the strongest response to product?"
	And those same three priorities that we've focused on throughout fiscal year 2019 will be the same ones we continue to drive in fiscal year 2020.
	"Capital ended the quarter with a $109 billion of assets excluding liquidity, which is about flat versus prior quarter."
	"And then, and just -- is this retail apocalypse kind of causing companies in other industries Q1 to adopt Salesforce a little faster so that they don't get Amazon or uberized?"
	We continue to invest to foolproof -- future proof our technology and scale of our business globally.
	"Overall backlog of $18 billion was down 1% sequentially, but up 5% year-over-year."
	And with that I'll turn it back over to Larry.
	"So Bret, I'm sure you want to add to that as well."
	We remain confident in the fundamental strength of Twitter and believe we are focused on the right priorities across the company.
	"It could be some kind of device that delivers pizza to you, delivery bots."
	"Vivek Juneja You mean when you say conducting yourselves as in just the whole process of how it works, account closures et cetera or something else?"
	Loren Starr Yes.
	"So I'd say really it is – the $501 million is a number that we feel extremely confident that we'll be able to deliver through a variety, they are right now."
	"I just want to ask a follow-up on the carne asada, my kind of chats or just even my experience in the stores was that the carne asada was selling significantly more than the regular steak."
	And let me know what you think at Dreamforce.
	"Greg, what would you think?"
	Originations increased 9% to $6.9 billion.
	"For Industrial free cash flow, we're raising our full year outlook to breakeven to positive $2 billion."
	Marty Flanagan Yes.
	Thank you.
	So – and I wouldn't just have it be the idea of just product.
	"David, I got your question."
	So we think the flow through so far is pretty much right on track.
	Factors that may cause the actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.
	"And between the performance of SUPER and the fact that it has ray tracing hardware, it’s going to be super well positioned for throughout all of next year."
	Good morning.
	"After the opening remarks, we will conduct a question-and-answer session."
	"And then secondly, for Colette, just want to double click on the gross margin question."
	"With that, here’s Jack to walk you through the financials."
	Your line is now open.
	Sara Senatore Thank you.
	"We're still planning for a lower industry, so healthy industry but a lower industry in 2020."
	Is video pricing also increasing on a sequential or year-on-year basis?
	"Jen-Hsun Huang Thanks, everyone."
	It really shows how our investment in maps and geo location and mobility are all sort of converging to enable these customers to provide the right support to the right customers wherever they happen to be.
	"So, we're able to service the business better as we go into the season."
	Chris O'Cull Great.
	"And then the – so when you look at our data center from that perspective and these pieces, although we don’t see as much – we don’t get as much visibility as we like in a couple of the large customers, the rest of the hyperscalers, we’re seeing broad-based growth."
	"Sol just on those digitally registered customers that we've seen in this recent quarters first of all, we've seen the redemption shifted to new tiers and that's not impacting our overall Starbucks Rewards growth."
	"First of all, one big component of the special attrition program was to give people choices."
	Jack Hartung Sure.
	Good morning and welcome to GE's third quarter 2019 earnings call.
	"And then, Kevin, you did mention that you've seen the business accelerate in the last couple of weeks."
	Our next question comes from Omar Saad with Evercore ISI.
	"Beyond the $5 billion debt tender completed, we announced pre-funding the GE pension plan by about $4 billion to $5 billion meeting the estimated minimum ERISA funding requirements for 2021 and 2022 and this will be completed in 2020."
	"Importantly, we achieved these results and what was a very challenging macroenvironmental flows and also been the early days this combination between our two organizations."
	Pat Grismer And John there was a second part to your question in relation I believe to the EPS accretion from the Global Coffee Alliance.
	Thanks everybody.
	It will continue to move forward.
	"And then just lastly, there's been a lot of negative comments on pricing, and some came from one of your cross-town rivals but also sort of in the press."
	Please proceed with your question.
	"John Murphy And Mary, when we think about those attritions whether it'd be special or sort of natural over the next few years, what is your plan as far as back feeling for those workers?"
	"So a positive net long-term sales, something you foresee for Invesco in 2020?"
	Douglas Anmuth Thanks for taking the questions.
	"Importantly, we remain committed to maintaining our leverage ratio below three times adjusted debt to EBITDAR."
	"As we think about the 6% NII decline in 2019, given sort of the forward curve plus that momentum, how should we think about NII decline expectations for 2020?"
	"We have been making considerable progress over the years, but we know there's more work to be done and that's something that we're always thinking about and trying to focus on constantly improving."
	We're calling the play and now it's a matter of us executing.
	"Should we’d still assume – to the extent, we assume asset inflation in our models, some upside to that with kind of normal increase in expenses related to asset build."
	Even when we incorporate the ongoing product issues that continued into September.
	But all the while this year you've been ramping up as your cold beverage growth seems to be ramping.
	And they want General Motors to succeed and they want to be a part of that successful future.
	Krista Bessinger Thank you.
	We ended the second quarter with about $17 billion of Industrial cash.
	"It appears in the front line and appears in the second line, it appears in technology, it appears in a variety of areas."
	"Scott has the guys dialed in on this and our throughput is continuing to improve quarter-to-quarter, month-to-month."
	"Enhanced training and development, industry-leading employee benefits, including the recent Debt-Free Degrees program in addition to our newly expanded tuition reimbursement program and a new crew bonus that was paid out to more than 2,600 employees last quarter are just a few examples of how we continue to invest in our people to cultivate a better restaurant culture."
	David Tarantino All right.
	A critical part of customer service for many of our customers is also field service.
	"I guess first question on gaming, how should we think about your outlook into the October quarter vis-à-vis kind of normal seasonality?"
	"And third, we are fully committed to our long-term model of double-digit non-GAAP EPS growth and will continue to make the investments necessary to sustain this growth over the long term."
	Does that have a carryover impact as we move into next year?
	Kevin Johnson And David I'll just punctuate.
	Gregory Frankfurt Got it.
	They got out of it.
	But we are definitely chipping away at it every single year.
	Loren Starr Yes.
	"All of this has increased our confidence, we can meet the larger challenges facing us in our industry, including misleading information and then ever evolving regulatory environment."
	And I think that's what we're demonstrating is tremendous unit economics.
	The ability to recover loss production during the strike in 2020 will depend on industry performance and our capacity availability as we already run our full size truck plans at maximum three ships capacity.
	More and more enterprises are using AI to create new products and services while leveraging AI to drive ultra efficiency and speed in their business.
	I think we and all our competitors would tell you it's a great opportunity.
	Kevin Johnson Let me just add a comment on the strength of the Starbucks brand.
	"And then, I guess, some of your competitors have multiple kind of cushioning lines."
	"And that's truly what you'll see in 2020, is a coordinative play, like Kevin said, where we'll go and market ourselves across every channel that we need to market ourselves across to make sure that we're increasing consideration with the consumer."
	They need powerful computers to do rendering and high-definition video editing.
	"And you should realize, if 35% market share, we’ve just please the model portfolios, it’s early."
	All that is consistent with our past priorities and all are still intact in terms of our thinking.
	Thanks for taking the question.
	But what I would highlight is that embedded in that is a 70 basis point impact from our leadership conference as well as a 30 basis point impact from streamline-driven activities.
	"As a reminder, we have a smaller credit card portfolio than our large bank peers which reduces the impact CECL adoption will have on our consumer loans."
	Has there been any sort of discussions with the union in the future on how to deal with these plans that could potentially beyond necessary?
	"GAAP and non-GAAP operating expenses are expected to be approximately $980 million and $765 million, respectively."
	"I don't know, Kevin, do you want to chime in because you've got the history here?"
	"I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Steve Winoker, Vice President of Investor Communications."
	"Cost productivity was driven by continued execution on design engineering, sourcing and services productivity."
	That's helpful.
	There is a great deal of work to do to meet the expectations of our regulators.
	"Too early to say on the sales what the difference is between Chipotlanes and non- Chipotlanes, Sharon, we’ve got 20 of these that spread throughout the country."
	"If you look for several years, the team at General Motors has been making tough decision to make our business more resilient and more agile."
	"And then there's some good news like Dave said, right?"
	The second element of Turing is something that we’ve never talked about before.
	"And then we have vertical industry enterprise, what sometimes we call enterprise, vertical industry enterprise, it could be transportation companies, retailers, telcos, vertical industry adoption of AI either to accelerate their business or to develop new products and services."
	"I guess first for Jensen, Volta’s been around now for about 2 years."
	It's one of many launches in China and it is on track.
	Do you feel like it's the start of the rebalancing of that auto business?
	Please go ahead.
	There are some definitely some positive things in our fee rate.
	"As we think about 2020, I think we're going to try to follow Boeing's lead here when we talk about the full year cash headwinds this year due to MAX that obviously assumes that we don't see a return to service this year."
	"In addition, we effectively utilize social media and ran several strategic promotions during the quarter to make the Chipotle brand more visible, while helping expand access."
	You may disconnect at this time.
	"That's a two-year sales comp of 6% for Q4 demonstrating continued positive momentum in our fastest-growing business, where we increased our store base by 17% over the prior year."
	So we probably have already seen it on television; we are running ads that both talk about Chipotle as the brand and the total restaurant company as well as driving Carne Asada.
	"The idea of Food With Integrity, the idea of customization, the idea of speed, and then obviously putting that all together at a really reasonable price, it’s something that’s very sticky for the Chipotle business."
	"I brought home one of the shoes, a new product technology we should have out."
	"So, I think our breath is an asset when we go into these conversations with our customers because I think we can provide a more complete vision for their digital transformation than any other company."
	Operator Thank you.
	"We're also moving the center of gravity from corporate to the businesses, a notable cultural shift for GE."
	"This year in addition to providing our 2020 outlook, it will include our Q4 and our full year 2019 earnings results."
	"So the one thing that is very, very clear to me is that whatever is going on around the world we see a buying environment."
	John Pancari Good morning.
	We did this in record time and ahead of schedule.
	We are also broadcasting this call via webcast.
	"If we – should change in the future, we’ll communicate that."
	"It comes out on October 15, so you can preorder your book now and I hope you'll get a chance to read it."
	Hope that helps.
	"Our newly launched heavy-duty trucks contributed favorably to volume, mix and price during the quarter."
	"It's a small $1 billion [-ish] [ph] P&L within renewables today, where we clearly are paying off those inheritance taxes, which we've referenced through the course of the year."
	We're getting also progress in our G&A areas as we look to make G&A more efficient as we scale up the company.
	"Interestingly, it was more on private side than the public side of the marketplace."
	"At Computex in May, we unveiled NVIDIA RTX Studio laptops, a new design artist platform that extends our reach to the large, underserved market of creators."
	Jamie Miller Yeah.
	"But I guess that implies a very high flow through margin, even on a 10% comp."
	So from there we're really wrestling with the pricing headwinds which I think are again improving but not with today's shipments unfortunately.
	"[Operator Instructions] Now I would like to turn the call over to your speakers for today, Marty Flanagan, President and CEO of Invesco; Loren Starr, Chief Financial Officer; and Greg McGreevey, Senior Managing Director, Investments."
	Thanks.
	"As we expand our store footprint, we have also been investing in innovative retail formats, including our Starbucks Now store in Beijing that opened in July, a unique, express retail experience, that seamlessly integrates physical and digital touch points, to enhance the Mobile Order & Pay, and the Starbucks Delivers customer experience."
	"I think that when I look out and I just was thinking about conversations that I had today, we're really at a moment in time where these top CEOs in the world all realize not only do their digital transformation has to be under way, their customer experience has to be first."
	"And just to give you an example of that, in two weeks, I have to go to New York which I'm very, very happy about to address the board of one of the -- I would say the most prestigious retailers in North America."
	So right now we think 3% is the right level.
	We had a $50 million reserve build in the third quarter compared with the $100 million reserve release a year ago.
	"So, we'll come back to you with more information on that, but right now we don't have the demographics on those customers."
	We see CEOs investing.
	"Operator Does that conclude your question, Patrick?"
	Nothing has changed there.
	These statements are based on management’s current business and market expectations and our actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statement.
	I know in the past you've talked about the digital information you have now on people who are not yet rewards members and I think you've given that number in the past.
	"Obviously, there's unusual items that affects both of those right now."
	Pat Grismer Absolutely.
	All participants will be in a listen-only mode.
	"And so that’s the near-term opportunity, it’s interactive conversational AI inference."
	And then I will take the rest of the RTX questions.
	My goal is to build – our goal is to build an eternal brand.
	"We have strong evidence that our approach is working, as demonstrated by the fact that we are seeing traffic growth across all day parts."
	Sort of similar to what we see in Europe and Germany to addressing or future or is there interest simply look this is a four year agreement and once it expires than we’ll deal with the future as it comes?
	The steady refinement is just one part of our development portfolio.
	Your line is now open.
	"While we will provide full guidance in February, let me help frame the year by outlining a number of puts and takes."
	"And so, in many ways our Growth at Scale agenda has really enabled us to put our energy behind the things that matter most and the things candidly that differentiate us from all others in the marketplace."
	"So that’s to what I'm looking for, and this is not access to data problem, this is bugs that we discovered in our remediating."
	"Krista Bessinger Thanks, Jack."
	"When you think about kind of driving forward through Q4, international, in general, we're continuing to see those improving service levels which is great."
	This is Dave.
	Our next question comes from Jonathan Komp with Baird.
	"The good news is what we've seen is after the restaurant opens and two or three weeks in, people get into a pretty good rhythm where they shop on time and once they realize this is how the Chipotlane works and we've gotten really great consumer acceptance and the right type of behavior going forward."
	"And as you know, we’re the only AI platform that’s available on-prem and in every single cloud."
	So we really labor – leveraged the labor line by about 160 basis points and that’s really right on the target.
	"So overall, I would say positive, carryover a net price."
	[Operator Instructions].
	"In addition, in June, we announced a new partnership with the Volvo Group to develop AI and autonomous trucks utilizing NVIDIA’s end-to-end AI platform for training, simulation and in-vehicle computing."
	"But if we did that for Turing, the adoption rate is actually faster."
	"So, we do pretty well and we put our backs to each other and face that and we're looking forward to that fist fight."
	"The combined firm added $200 million net revenues during the quarter, while adding only less than $60 million in expenses."
	"And so right now, knock on wood, cross fingers, all that kind of stuff."
	And here the United States with the economic growth are moderating here in the recent past and in the next year or so we're anticipating.
	"Allen Parker No, it'll keep -- the number will keep being refined until we file the Q, which will happen in a couple of weeks."
	"Bill Katz Okay, that is very helpful."
	Roz Brewer Sure.
	No wonder it’s receiving terrific customer feedback.
	"Jonathan, we can certainly appreciate that you'd like us to provide more details regarding that matter."
	And we enabled members to earn Stars from online shopping.
	Can you help us to understand what's driving that?
	And so these type of activities is really driving interest and activity at all of the hyperscalers.
	So we took well over $1 billion of charges in the second half last year.
	"The second is the recovery that we saw in September, really wasn’t from remediation, this was - that there was, if you think about our two things that we talked about advertisers, launching new products and services and connecting of what’s happening, those along with the always-on advertising that you'll often see when you come to Twitter, they just rebounded nicely to double-digits, led by the United States, but not just in the United States in September."
	"Emmanuel Rosner Okay, that's great color."
	"So instead of getting a partial quarter impact, you get a full quarter impact in Q4."
	South America will remain volatile.
	This way the digital transformation is really fueled by so many things that is the foundation of it is the 360 degree view of the customer and each of the elements of that 360 degree view of the customer important whether it's relative to the use case and the problem that you're trying to solve whether it's sales or service or marketing or commerce.
	"We saw comps accelerate in September, when we initially rolled out carne asada, which is around September 12 or so."
	We now have 1.5 million learners changing their careers and changing their lives on Trailhead.
	"Just hoping you could talk a little bit about some of the investments that you've been making in the institutional business, particularly around data, technology and also the ability to customize."
	"My name is Hector, and I'll be your conference operator today."
	"And to me, it’s a rather sensible."
	"Thanks, Kevin."
	"Marty Flanagan So, we have an enormous amount of investments in our run rate."
	What the number may be here in the as of September 30?
	"So, number of questions there, so let me address them one-by-one."
	"We had a number of significant items in the third quarter that impacted our results, which we highlight in slide two."
	Krista Bessinger Great.
	Reducing friction and providing more convenient access for our guests has been critical to increasing our digital system penetration over the past couple of years.
	"And so, you will see our marketing become more personalized and that will help with retention and driving frequency in our stores."
	We look forward to seeing many of you there at our Annual Analyst Day.
	"The other thing that contributes to is we had a change in accounting a year or so ago which is causing us to recognize unrealized gains where they said there's a subsequent capital raise in a private deal that causes us to have to mark up our position, and it's always been true if one of those companies goes public, but our affiliate still ends up owning shares for a period of time that we write up, we recognize the gain even though we haven't liquidated our position."
	"But because the entire ecosystem and all of our execution engines are so primed, we were able to ship a fair number through the channel."
	We’ve also been able to find more and more opportunities to reuse without impacting our customers view of vehicle is being all-new especially when you look at some of the architectural components.
	I'm wondering how big of an impact you think operations have versus some of the product news you had during the quarter?
	The questions that we're getting from your investor base is that they're trying to gauge how much further investment there needs to be sort of going forward.
	We don’t see sort of big likely to terminates or sort of big ugly story on the downside for institutional.
	"But with respect to the cash flows in this business, we had over $4 billion last year despite some of the MAX dynamics, as Jamie just outlined."
	Total net revenues were $26.5 billion up 10% over the prior year when adjusted for streamline activities and foreign exchange.
	There will also be higher depreciation.
	We have full price trending better which is great for us.
	This is an incredibly strong foundation to build upon.
	So it's consistent.
	"So again, source transaction was very important for us and we see that pace just picking up as we look to the future."
	"With assumptions based on measured improvements in traffic, conversion and new door openings, also supported by an easier prior-year comparison in North America, we expect to see some Q4 improvement."
	It seems like some of those things are at least starting to potentially like shift gear.
	"They were in constant contact with us throughout the work stoppage and ensuring as they would be ready for a prompt, safe restart once the new contract was ratified."
	We are continuing to open new units at an accelerated pace.
	"SUPER is off to a super start for and at this point, it’s a foregone conclusion that we’re going to buy a new graphics card, and it’s going to the last 2, 3, 4 years to not have ray tracing is just crazy."
	You know the Barclays story that we have in the U.K. We have industrial manufacturers in Germany automotive manufacturers who are trying to improve the customer experience and driving 360 degree.
	"And as the integration is completed, we would expect the gross sales levels to come back to at least the pre-acquisition levels."
	"To your question on free cash flow impact, obviously, there's the flow through from the profit impact into free cash flow."
	"As we noted earlier, we have made the strategic decision to reinvest the portion of this upward revision in gross margin, along with underlying cost efficiencies, together approaching $20 million to fund incremental digital and marketing investments in the fourth quarter."
	Vivek Juneja Completely separate question for John.
	The recent strike is obviously had a negative impact on our financial performance in Q3 and more so in Q4.
	We’ve talked for quite some time about how our focus on increasing relevance and ease-of-use will compound into sustainable growth.
	"New store development continues to be our number one driver of growth in China and I'm pleased to say that, our pace of development in Q4 set a new record as we opened 201 net new stores growing store count by 17% versus the prior year."
	Just overall from a profitability perspective as we think about that segment was fiscal 2020 in line with relative to what you originally thought?
	John you want to comment on the-- John Culver I would just say Katherine on the international side we're also rolling the machines out internationally as well.
	"Credit card net charge-offs have been relatively stable as we've been thoughtful in our efforts to generate new account growth, including the launch of our Propel American Express Card last year, and while auto and net charge-offs increased from the second quarter due to seasonality, they were down from a year ago even as we've grown originations by 45%."
	"Revenues of $4.4 billion were up 13% reported and 15% organically, mainly driven by onshore volume up 27%."
	Bill Katz Thank you.
	And that's it for me.
	At the heart of Customer 360 is our incredible community of our Trailblazers.
	So being able to understand the industry and enabling our field organizations and our entire company on understanding an industry and being able to solve the customer problem is a huge part of it.
	"John why don't you -- John Culver Yes, I think Jeffrey this -- what we're seeing in China is a direct result of the digital footprint that we've been able to build there as well as the meaningful innovation that we're bringing products in Modern Mixology and then the innovation that we're doing around our store footprint."
	It’s more about introducing people to the Chipotle experience ongoing.
	So I will quantify that further in February.
	"Last month, we set records for training deep learning neural network models on the latest MLPerf benchmarks, particularly in the most demanding areas."
	We're doing everything we can to build/deliver this incredible vision and we couldn't be more excited to build out our Customer 360 platform organically as well as through the acquisition of some phenomenal companies and some phenomenal talent.
	"On the right-hand side of Slide 9, we provide an update on our run-off insurance portfolio."
	"In fact, the issues we saw this quarter reinforced our confidence in our strategy, both in consumer and ads."
	Thanks.
	"During this call, we may make forward-looking statements based on current expectations."
	Just some of the margin headwinds specifically please?
	Operator Our last question comes from the line of Chris McNally with Evercore.
	Intel’s talked quite openly about One API.
	So that’s what gives us confidence that we’re far from the ceiling on this.
	"So I think EMEA, I think Asia-Pac, Brexit and trade wars, they have just tremendous headwinds for us and against, so posting results in light of that, it's not an excuse, it's just a reality."
	Operator Thank you.
	And some of the customers that we've seen on that platform have really just trounced their competitors.
	So we're just limited with the real estate that we have and then you've got to have the end cap in the right location in order to do a retrofit.
	It's still pretty early.
	We take it’s been very important to change our ways to support our clients and Intelliflo was an important part of that.
	"And in terms of bringing more advertisers to the service, we have a nice business where we help smaller advertisers in reaching their customers on Twitter."
	"In fact, the NVIDIA AI platform is getting progressively faster."
	"Ryan, what we’ve previously talked about is the breakeven level of 10 million to 11 million units for the U.S."
	We see the benefit from interest.
	"We stand out over 3,000 stores, in 100 cities."
	"Services revenue was up 7% driven by mix and commercial services shop visits and total military sales were up 18%, driven by engine unit shipments, up 16% and growth and development programs."
	"I think matching detail that people should be able to understand as that story unfolds, and I think as we finish this work that we do with Charlie and we talk about what the next steps are expense-wise, that's a reasonable expectation from our team."
	Next on Renewable Energy.
	"So, we feel like there is more to come in those three areas, so we'll continue on the pathway we those three important initiatives for us because there's still more to be done in those areas."
	"I’m curious, maybe more from a big picture level, how you’re thinking about Twitter's access to data."
	"And can you just for color, maybe Jack on the marketing stand, I think you said 4% in the fourth quarter, which would lead the full year at 3%."
	"I wish that on the past and choppy markets like we saw this quarter, that was decent backdrop for GTR, just – if you could just talk about what you're seeing on the ground in terms of potential demand?"
	"Two questions, just one following up on the, I guess menu relation."
	"In Healthcare, once you take out Life Sciences, the margin isn't all that exciting really."
	"And that's part of what gives us confidence that we are pushing on the right elements that we think differentiates the Starbucks brand versus alternatives in the market, strengthens the connection between our partners and the customers, driving customer connection scores to an all-time high and in turn driving traffic and growth."
	"In closing, let me highlight upcoming events for the financial community."
	"Goodness, SUPER is off to a super start."
	"So I want to make that very, very clear, but we are committed to the United States and committed to manufacturing in the United States."
	"It is important to note that while this labor agreement is inflationary, we expect to offset incremental economics over the contract period with productivity initiative."
	"David Bergman Hey, Jonathan."
	Thanks.
	Branch customer experience survey scores have increased for five consecutive quarters and reached their highest levels in more than three years in September.
	We are building a broad base of customers across multiple industries as they adopt NVIDIA’s platforms to harness the power of AI.
	We remain on track to deliver double-digit revenue growth in the full year with a solid plan on deliveries.
	"And of these about 2,000 of those are real cost out most of which is felt in the segments and the remainder was pushed to the segments."
	"This reflects lost production of a richer product mix as we launched our high content, high margin heavy-duty crew cab, as well as the impact of last aftermarket sales."
	"So that we can ensure multiple layers of review and better visibility into issues as they emerge, and obviously the goal of all this is to prevent the occurrence of the kinds of issues that we had in the past."
	"So still I think first quarter 2021, as we said."
	Kenneth Lee Great.
	"I'll start off with some thoughts on our performance and our strategic priorities, then Jamie will cover the quarter in detail before I wrap with our updated outlook."
	"Andy, if we did anything, it definitely would be in that kind of 2% range, but no decisions have been made."
	"Colette Kress So to answer your question regarding gross margin in a little bit more detail, probably our largest area that we expect improvement in terms of our mix is our mix return regarding our overall gaming business."
	"Earlier this week, we announced breakthroughs for the fastest training and inference of the state-of-the-art model for natural language process understanding called BERT, or Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers, a breakthrough AI language model that achieves a deeper sense of language, context and meaning."
	"David Long Good morning, everyone."
	I was in the U.K. and Switzerland and France and Italy and meeting with CEOs from various industries in those geographies.
	"Excluding a 7% benefit from unplanned tax favorability and a 1% benefit from streamline-related activities, partially offset by a 1% headwind from foreign exchange, non-GAAP EPS growth was 10% consistent with our long-term EPS growth model of at least 10%."
	"Roz, do you want to take that one for us?"
	"Can you maybe talk about the experience so far in terms of balancing consumers kind of timing when they show up at the restaurant with kind of when the food is ready, and if they show up early, and how you manage through that and kind of how you would expect to manage that as you go forward?"
	I think related to that particular platform that you're talking about our exposures probably less than $0.5 billion.
	Your line is now open.
	"These increases were partially offset by a $2.5 billion reduction in corporate Treasury deposits, the second consecutive quarter of declines."
	It's taught us a lot.
	But we're looking forward to the next chapter and we're set up and we're ready to build and be that great brand that we talk about so often.
	Patrik Frisk Yeah.
	"There's an expression that says, the best decisions are not made in the office."
	"Curious what kind of benefits you're seeing from the new machines both in customer satisfaction, quality, and throughput."
	GeForce has several growth drivers.
	So I'm just wondering whether or not we should expect Americas margins to stabilize or not in 2020 as well?
	You've got to get the flywheel going.
	"And we have a number of luxury retailers some that I can mention by name, but honestly a lot of them, so I just cannot by their own request who have done a tremendous job of integrating their digital experience and their physical experience."
	"The new guidance $4.50 to $4.80, you’re correct, we've subtracted the $2 and arrived at, so it’s the original guidance we gave in January less $2 on the upper end we clipped it by $0.20 as you’ve seen we’ve -- its’ been quite a volatile environment in China as well as the microeconomic of volatility we’re seeing in South America as well the FX environment that we saw earlier in the year, when we gave our guidance was very different from the FX picture that we have today, which is offsetting some of that as well."
	"We completed $2 billion of Capital asset reductions in the quarter, totaling $3.6 billion year-to-date and we're more than halfway through the $10 billion full year target with the signing of PK AirFinance."
	I was hoping to get an update on some of the supply chain initiatives that we’ve been talking about in 2019.
	You may now disconnect.
	We would have added something quite a bit less than 7.5% in terms of the hours.
	"Relative to all the enacted tariff policies that are out there with List 3 and List 4A and 4B, all of that's considered in our outlook and we feel like we're in a really good spot."
	"The only other dis-synergies are the ones we just talked about in terms of the gross sales being abnormally low, some of the kind of a general disruption related to GA conversions."
	"While we continue to work on strike recovery efforts, we anticipate that we have small portion of the losses sustained during this strike can be recovered this year due to capacity constraints."
	And the way we derive that financial benefit is through check and transactions.
	Thank you.
	So the operational team is very focused.
	Roz Brewer Sure.
	"Yes, I don't know."
	"And so, we are seeing a lot of excitement around that area."
	Additionally our drive-through business continues to grow well and you'll see that continue through fiscal year 2020.
	Can you give a little bit more color on the deceleration in the APAC segment?
	"Clearly both at Power and at renewables, I think what's most relevant is where we are and how we play through the energy transition much more so than any economic pressure."
	Thanks very much for all the color.
	Ray tracing content just keeps coming out.
	There was a significant impact year-over-year due to higher losses from consolidating the legacy Alstom JVs and from legacy contracts.
	"And again, I'm encouraged by the progress that I see."
	"And from the learning curve, going back to 2002, making my first trips to – speaking to the right footwear factories, of understanding how we can be there and be effective, of knowing what that would mean and the time that it would take."
	"Additionally, with the lap of the leadership conference in fiscal 2019, we expect year-over-year non-GAAP EPS growth to be at its highest in Q4 for fiscal 2020."
	"In the area of leadership, we made important hires during the third quarter in Technology, Merchant Services, and Wealth Management."
	"I was having a meeting with them, and they took me aside and they said the company that you should acquire is Demandware and here's why."
	Larry Culp Good morning.
	"At the moments of training, competition, and recovery, we continue to see great potential in our ability to better personalize consumer touch points through a sharper, data-driven point of view."
	"Think about MAP, if we can help people realize their objectives with fewer impressions that leaves more impressions for other things without changing how many ads we show to somebody or anything like that."
	"This business remains within the GE family of growing an important P&L in its own right within corporate, which will serve customers in Power Grid, Oil & Gas and select manufacturing industries."
	So is that’s because the bugs are causing deceleration in places like Japan or is it that the users are coming in country [ph] but that may not offer as higher monetization potential.
	Thank you.
	Two questions from me please.
	"Could you talk about, kind of perpetual, because they’re being brought into same in the same discussions around the platforms and how these funds are being sold and you obviously your performance there has been hit?"
	"Headwinds for 2020 include likely lower industry volume, downtime and ramp up for the launch of our full-size SUVs, higher depreciation and continued volatility in China and in South America."
	Dan Levy Just wanted to follow up on the question on this productivity gains.
	"On the servicing side, well I wouldn't expect there to be any revaluation in the fourth quarter."
	"GAAP EPS was $0.90, down 49% from a year earlier."
	"So first of all, does this current agreement have any limitations on specifying limitations on what you can build for EVs?"
	"So you have – with our smart pickup times, you do select a time for when your food is going to be ready and then you show up with it."
	"So going forward, I think the teams will be very focused on making sure that this is as good a business as any GE business."
	"But, ultimately, for us, footwear is playing the long game."
	"Mary Barra I would say we're not going to give you a specific mileage, but they are doing exactly what they indicated, they would do in the summer timeframe."
	"So, over the last few years, we continue to drive forward and increase our footwear gross margin."
	"That, plus the working capital unwind, constitutes most of the 5.5."
	And we’d expect net flows to improve as we complete all phases of the sales integration work through this year and into 2020.
	"And I applaud, the 400,000 green apron partners, who deliver a premium Starbucks Experience to every customer they serve."
	I was in Paris meeting with one of the largest bank’s CEOs in the world.
	We've seen the early success of opening three new brand houses full price in North America in the last quarter.
	"And so, as you think about what's driving in the Q4, continued channel mix benefits with licensing and a higher DTC mix will help us out in Q4."
	You better to respond to the person in real time.
	"So again some of these – be able to continue to manage through it, but any relief is just really powerful."
	Our International segments non-GAAP operating margin increased by 70 basis points to 21.7% in Q4.
	"And if you remember, at the investor day, we laid out that 20-quarter plan and the Protect This House timeframe that we're currently in, that we're turning the corner to in 2020."
	"We presented on Slide 9 of our deck summarizing these expense synergies, this illustrates the combined firms’ representative run rate, annual operating expense base."
	You see the structure we have in place.
	These declines in net interest income were partially offset by favorable balance sheet growth and mix and the benefit of one additional day of the quarter.
	So don’t want to get too far ahead of the fact that it’s relatively short term performance.
	Thank you.
	"That version 2 will always be better than version 1, but you're about to see a really harmonized play come from this company and something we'll be able to deliver on a consistent basis due to the culture and the process that we've been able to implement and put into this brand."
	"Our global installed base allows us to be in close daily contact with customers helping them solve important problems that they are facing, services which turn drive half of our revenue."
	"Krista Bessinger Thank you, operator."
	Your line is open.
	"This is now live in the US, Japan and Canada."
	"But I thought in your response to the prior question, you said that that the $2.905 billion would be the run rate entering in 2020, but I'd thought previously you had said the expense synergies you get there by the time you exit 1Q 2021."
	"Before we get started, I would like to remind you that our third quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our Web site at wellsfargo.com."
	"To support this growth, we up-leveled our Tmall flagship store in September to offer our Starbucks Rewards members, exclusive products and a tailor-made gift experience."
	"Yes, thanks for recognizing that we are moving towards our expectations that, over time, we’ll continue to see our overall volumes improve."
	And our effective tax rate for the third quarter was approximately 22%.
	"David, thank you for the congratulations."
	That tends to cause our customer to want to get your Chipotlanes even more often.
	"And then just on carne asada, is this – was this intended to be an LTO or what – why are you running out of product and is it just temporary or is it, you’re just going to pause this in-and-out?"
	"So in this case, you’d be able to follow bitcoin if you saw Bitcoin related tweet."
	Operator Your next question comes from the line of Lloyd Walmsley of Deutsche Bank.
	"And third, we remain fully committed to our long-term model of double-digit non-GAAP EPS growth."
	Because we’re still learning there on what we can do with our Chipotle business.
	"These were multiday sessions, not flybys, with robust debates about strategy and priorities, aimed at growing our topline, expanding margins, generating cash and delivering innovation and customer satisfaction for our customers."
	"Throughout fiscal 2019 in the U.S., we invested in our partners, by allocating additional store labor, increasing store-level training, and simplifying in-store tasks, often with new technology."
	We think we have a good plan for how to do that in beyond 2019 and it will be a gradual process for us.
	"As a result, we expect our marketing investment to be at or slightly above 4% in Q4, which will result in the full year investment remaining right around 3% of sales."
	Steve Winoker Great.
	Greg McGreevey Yes.
	And our next question will come from the line of Brad Zelnick from Credit Suisse.
	"So, no real changes there and as we think about next year, we think about a similar set of priorities from a big picture perspective, but it’s too early to lay out our specific plans or think about how that will all play out."
	There - I wouldn't say that we're more costs from the bugs.
	Industrial free cash flow was $650 million for the quarter and $500 million lower than prior year.
	Let’s move to GM International.
	"This was the result of sourcing more supply from Peru, which reduced our reliance on Mexico."
	So no changes to our thinking around cash although the balance has moved around a bit based on the repayment and the cash generation.
	"Autonomous features can bring enormous value to the trucking industry, in particular as the demand of online shopping put ever greater stress on the world’s transport systems."
	Operator Thank you.
	Thank you.
	"We have our steam business, our nuclear business and Power Conversion."
	"In our e-commerce business, we continued to see higher traffic, but lower conversion with relatively flat AUR."
	Jack Dorsey Hey.
	Operator Thank you.
	Underlying G&A with a little lower than expected as we continue to finish rounding out our organizational structure.
	The number of software developers that create – with creative tools that adopted RTX is really quite spectacular.
	"Revenue in North America was down 4% in the quarter, which was in line with the outlook we provided on our last call."
	"So finally, it is still very early days, but from our perspective, the initial results are very strong."
	"When excluding the 60 basis point favorable impact from streamline-related activities, the segment's non-GAAP operating margin increased by 10 basis points as the benefits of sales leverage cost savings initiatives and labor productivity were largely offset by growth in wages and benefits, an unfavorable shift in product mix and strategic investments."
	Net interest income declined $470 million from the second quarter primarily due to balance sheet re-pricing driven by the impact of the lower interest rate environment as well as $133 million of higher MBS premium amortization costs due to higher pre-payments.
	"Well, Saleforce skills are in high demand."
	Thanks for taking my question.
	"Some of it's timing of digital initiatives, timing of office renovations and related efficiencies."
	Only having about 10% of our product that comes into the US being sourced out of China.
	"We took an $0.08 non-cash goodwill impairment charge related to Hydro, eliminating all goodwill associated with that business."
	Please go ahead.
	"There's a couple things that drive that, one is it's a great time to be realizing from both private equity and venture portfolios."
	"We had a smaller business in Europe, but then the rest of the world was Greenfield as it relates to CPG and foodservice channels."
	Most of our 2019 strike-related production losses will not be recovered in 2019 because of capacity constraints.
	"And in particular, a few discrete items, you're talking about downtime and ramp up for the full size SUV, anything you're able to quantify in terms of specifically in the downtime there?"
	"John Shrewsberry Yes, for MBS it's just under $400 million for the quarter and it was just under $250 million for the second quarter, and we think it'll be up a little bit in the fourth quarter."
	"So what I'd like to do is highlight what was unique to Q4, including recent trends impacting our flow through, which primarily relates to two margin drivers within our Americas segment."
	"To this effect, we began responding back in July of 2017 to their request for documents and information."
	We have over 20 products that we've launched.
	This was partially offset by military growth and commercial aftermarket strength.
	They deliver a 2 to 3x performance speed up over GPUs without a dedicated ray tracing core.
	"For those of you who watch what happen, I think just now about a week ago we saw that the Salesforce developer was ranked at the second number two on GlassDoor's list of jobs are the best career opportunities that was amazing for us."
	"So, Jay, maybe I can add a little color to that."
	Welcome to the Salesforce Q2 Fiscal Year 2020 Earnings Conference Call.
	"And than just a host of other restructuring projects where whether we plan conservatively or delivering more effectively, we're getting a better return for our dollar."
	"Just on digital sales, I understand there’s some seasonality, but I was still surprised to see sequentially about the same percentage of sales as digital."
	"We saw organic expansion in Healthcare, but declines in Renewable Energy and Aviation due to negative mix."
	We're in third quarter out of a 20-quarter plan.
	John Culver Yeah.
	"That along with continuing to improve relevance, better formats and moving down the funnel in terms of the types of advertising that is available, those are all things that ought to help us from the auction dynamics perspective."
	"At Industrial, we sold a portion of our Baker Hughes stake for approximately $3 billion of proceeds and we exited Wabtec, bringing in another $1.6 billion."
	I think Jenny went through that in her prepared remarks.
	Kenneth Lee Great.
	"So I can't get too specific at this point, but ultimately, we're still looking at the wide range of opportunities around this integration as we get closer to the business."
	"And so this depth and breadth of investment capabilities has mattered, but right behind it exactly what you're talking about investments in technology around analytics, insights, has been very material."
	Operator Your final question will come from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
	"And really when you look at the construct, that plus a little bit of the restructuring side, which Larry talked about, that really makes up sort of the bulk of how we think about the 2019 shifting, but you can glean some of the pieces going into 2020."
	And then the new market that we introduced and launched this last quarter is called RTX Studio.
	This is a combination of things where sometimes it's one event comps against another one like the Men's World Cup in '18 versus the Women's World Cup in '19.
	"Connecting with guests through culturally relevant marketing focused on Chipotle’s great taste and real ingredients, while providing more convenient access is helping lead to greater overall demand."
	And then cost for ad engagement was down 12%.
	Thank you.
	"As a result of the more than 80 restaurants currently at construction, about half of them will have a Chipotlane, which will result in a total of about 60 Chipotlanes by the end of 2019."
	"The recent reclassification of certain line items in the middle of our P&L also meaningfully benefits G&A, while adversely impacting store operating expenses."
	If you look at very strong earnings quarter-over-quarter generating $502 million operating income at 38% improvements as compared to last quarter.
	"Then your next set of questions was around international, so a couple of things to point out there."
	We started deliveries of our heavy duties in Q2 and we have gained 6 percentage points in market share since the launch.
	We are working with Microsoft as an early adopter of these advances.
	You're going to have a full year of heavy-duty trucks and the product launches that I talked about.
	"In EMEA, we form new relationships with HDM in Germany, the largest global manufacturer of offset printing press and fashion retail organization Esprit, both choosing Commerce Cloud in the quarter."
	So I guess that's where my focus is.
	Thanks.
	"The last time a new processor entered into a data center was an x86 Xeon, and you just don’t bring processors in the data centers that frequently or that easily."
	Next question please.
	"We entered China's at-home and food service segments through the alliance, allowing Chinese consumers to enjoy some of their favorite Starbucks coffees in the comfort of their home."
	The biggest drivers of growth were once again the Renewable Energy onshore wind ramp along with Aviation equipment.
	And it's the play we want to continue to run as we go into 2020.
	"And so, we aligned all of the OEMs and created a whole new line of notebooks called RTX Studio."
	"G&A for the quarter was approximately $115 million on a GAAP basis or $105 million on a non-GAAP basis, excluding about $7.5 million for settlements of several legal matters and $2.5 million related to transformation expenses."
	"David Bergman Yeah, Jared."
	We expect cRPO growth of approximately 24% to 25% year-over-year in the third quarter.
	Steve Winoker Great.
	The software stack at Xilinx is progressing with Versal ACAP.
	"Here we have a $17 billion revenue business, smack in the middle of most of that matters in healthcare delivery today."
	Please proceed with your question.
	"But if we assume an environment in 2020, similar to '19, like just back in the envelope, I was sort of just looking at the calendar and counting days and make some assumptions."
	"And just a quick follow-up, is there any way to sort of quantify, I guess, how much investment spend is currently in the expense run rate and how we should think about that, if anything kind of peeling back over the next couple of years or if that get recycled into other investments?"
	Now with Customer 360 we have just never really been better positioned for the future.
	Everyone and everything is getting connected.
	I really appreciate it.
	"Look, it is a – yes, it's really wearing on clients, right."
	And speaking of China development it's worth noting that our store openings in lower-tier cities in China accounted for a meaningfully higher percentage of total store growth in that market versus the prior year.
	We're so pleased about that and so excited about that.
	"Upgrades, we see good demand."
	Other operating costs for the quarter were 12.8% a decrease of 90 basis points from Q3 of last year due to lower marketing and promo cost as well as sales leverage.
	I think there are few important takeaways from this chart.
	It is the first model in South America from our new global family of vehicles and carries a five star safety rating.
	"The other thing that we’re doing and experimenting with right now on iOS, it's a small rollout so far, but we intend to expand it soon."
	"Health care companies, you name it."
	"And, something we’re going to work on going forward, given the response we’ve seen is, okay, how do we work on the supply of steak in that particular cut to be consistent with our Food With Integrity principles to give us the flexibility to do it beyond just the seasonal program."
	"Strides that are beginning to harness the energy, power and strength necessary to deliver prudently as we work to grow our brand over the long-term."
	"Finally, I want to briefly touch on 2020."
	Or is there any kind of scope so we can work as we think through 4Q and into 2020?
	"The 2020 Bolt also retains what our customers love about this vehicle, instant torque, excellent riding handling, and a zero to 60 times of just 6.5 seconds."
	These valuation adjustments resulted in our mortgage banking revenue declining from the second quarter despite an increase in mortgage originations and higher production margins.
	"I'm not sure we're in a position to quantify that specifically today for you as those conversations are ongoing, but that's really what's happening."
	"So, when you take all of those together we believe that it is prudent to guide to comp growth in China in the range of 1% to 3% again consistent with our ongoing model."
	John Shrewsberry Sure.
	"Jack Hartung Thanks, Brian and good afternoon, everyone."
	Walking through our segments on slide 8 starting with Power.
	And our next question will come from our Richard Davis with Canaccord.
	We gamers could churn products quickly because they’re bought and sold one at a time.
	"Some of them professionals, some of them hobbyists."
	"Clearly, in China this past year, we've seen a significant step forward in our digital customer relationships."
	Would you guys expect that this translates into a double-digit percentage sequential growth in data center in Q3 off of the low base in Q2?
	"I would now like to turn the call over to John Campbell, Director of Investor Relations."
	"Matt O'Connor Okay, and I was kind of thinking 250 is broadly speaking, but that is helpful."
	Our researchers won several Best in Show awards.
	"Our expenses increased $1.4 billion from a year ago, driven by $1.3 billion of higher operating losses reflecting higher litigation accruals."
	"But you know what the key things that we've done is light-weighting because light-weighting is so important across every component and from a body structures perspective, that light weighting generally requires a little bit more labor."
	The other reality is the demands on clients have never been – from clients has never been stronger.
	We also discovered that certain personalization and data settings were not operating as expected.
	"As great as carne asada taste, it’s success is amplified by all elements of our strategy coming together in unison."
	"Chipotlane, we’ve only got 20 Chipotlane restaurants right now, but we’re going to have 60 by the end of the year."
	AI is the most powerful technology force of our time and a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.
	We maintained strong capital levels even as we reduced common shares outstanding by 9% and increased our quarterly common stock dividend by 19% from a year ago.
	This growth was partially offset by pay downs as well as sales of $510 million of PCI mortgage loans.
	Moving to Aviation.
	But please do keep in mind that this assumes FX and market conditions are in line roughly with the end of Q3 levels.
	"And so looking forward, this is what I expect."
	Brennan Hawken Good morning.
	"The – to put sales force point in clarity as we've said in the past, literally the sales force now represents half of old Invesco, old OFI."
	"Eric Compton Absolutely, you said 2006 you meant 16?"
	And we look forward to sharing more details with you in the weeks ahead.
	"As we've discussed, we're raising our Industrial free cash flow guidance again."
	But let me take a step back and address the spirit of your question.
	Brian Niccol Yes.
	"Before we start, I'd like to remind you that the press release presentation and 10-Q are available on our website."
	"I think in terms downside, there isn’t a ton of downsides."
	Jay Sole Got it.
	Our light duty pickup trucks improved 6.8% at retail in Q3 year-over-year to over 40% as we rolled out diesel and other cab variants.
	"This was partially offset by the impact of this strike, warranty costs and lower pension and health."
	Operator Your next question comes from the line of Eric Compton with Morningstar.
	Thank you.
	"My question actually is about the new espresso machines that you guys were trialing and testing, but it looks like you're rolling them out a little bit more broadly here."
	thank you.
	Is any update on how you're thinking about that and then managing expenses with that mind?
	"Erika Najarian Got it, thank you."
	It still actually appeals to a lot of people in principle in terms of what it's trying to achieve as an outcome in a lower risk than the equity markets with good return over cash.
	So right now we're kind of crossing our fingers and hope that everything continues to look stable.
	Thank you.
	"So I've never been more excited about our ability to create more success for our customers that with the strategy, that's what I would say."
	"Well, I want to just thank you, John for introducing that and also thank you everybody for being on the call today."
	"And then, can I ask you just for some clarity on footwear side of things."
	Brian Niccol Yes.
	"And again, 2020, MAX a little bit TBD and we do expect that accrued discounts and allowances to also shift downward, which we'll see some pressure there but some goodness from MAX, hopefully."
	And we just had a great market opportunity in front of us to serve our customer.
	Or is it just food or other things that are going on?
	"We ended with backlog of $386 billion, up 14% year-over-year."
	"Secondly, we're seeing better performance across a couple of our businesses; so strength in aviation services, coupled with some incrementally better Healthcare performance."
	"Q2 revenue was $2.58 billion, in line with our outlook, down 17% year-on-year and up 16% sequentially."
	"Jamie Miller Good morning, Nicole."
	"And we feel good about how we have thought about Q4 in terms of being balanced there, so I hope that gives a little bit more color adding to what Dave said."
	"David Bergman Right now, we're in a very good position."
	Power remains on track to deliver its 2019 outlook of organic revenues down high single-digits and positive segment margins.
	"GE is a company with vast industrial strength due to our team, our technology and our global network."
	"We still plan to contribute $4 billion in total to GE Capital in 2019, including $2.5 billion in the fourth quarter."
	Lower-priced has been gaining some traction for some time.
	Brian Niccol Yes.
	"And do you think that do EV is require less labor then internal combustion vehicles, all else equal?"
	"Roz, why don't you take the first question on the digitally registered customers that Sharon asked."
	Your line is open.
	"Marc, I wanted to ask you, we're witnessing such a bifurcation in the retailer's results this year."
	"This number, we’re feeling is comfortable based on the current AUM levels."
	And so the performance that’s required is significant.
	"And when I think and reflect on that, it's how much of the external noise that continues to come at a public company, yet the ability of how we manage that."
	It's something that's very important to us.
	Bill Katz Okay.
	[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Mark Murphy from JPMorgan.
	"I think, what you said, there's a 7% to 8% reduction in revenue relative to some things that happened in 2019."
	And as the U.S. retail sales teams complete their integration.
	We added the Salesforce Blockchain.
	This same vigor has been applied in everything we've done over the past few years to continuously improve our operations and executional abilities.
	So there was previously referenced the announcement we got recently from Wirehouse expected to launch a program optional for participating asset managers on SMA products.
	"We finished the quarter with $11.8 billion of liquidity, down $800 million from the prior quarter, primarily driven by debt maturities, partially offset by operations and disposition proceeds."
	Getting to $5 billion was something that we roughly got close to it around 2016 and then we've been fighting.
	"And for us, as Kevin highlighted in his comments, digital orders represent 10% of the business that we saw in the quarter, 7% of that coming through delivery which is an entirely new channel for us and then 3% coming through Mobile Order & Pay."
	Could you possibly help us to size each of those in terms of its magnitude on the change?
	"In aggregate, issues relating to our revenue products reduced the year-over-year growth by three or more points in Q3."
	"And finally, we have continued to pursue new opportunities to expand digital customer relationships, investing to meet customers' increasing desire for convenience and personalized offers."
	Is that related to the rationalization process?
	"Reflecting on three quarters of results, many of the trends highlighted in the second quarter still hold."
	We're continuing that expansion with Mastrena and should finish that work in the next 12 months or so.
	"It also means that we continue to invest in this Trailblazer community, where we want millions of people who evangelize and architect solutions that drive success for our customers."
	I was just hoping you could talk about that.
	"We have maintained the mix of our North American manufacturing footprint, maintained ability to adjust our work force in response to changing industry levels, protected the balance sheet with no increase to define benefit pension obligation and no payments or increase obligations to retirees."
	"So I think once that fully runs through the comparison periods, I mean it's affecting them already."
	Any other deal related dis-synergies that we should expect in the near-term.
	"A tweet about the Golden State Warriors for instance, would now have a prompt to follow the topic, which allows us to include all relevant tweets matching the topic, without having to follow the various accounts that produce them."
	"I'll start by addressing three areas of our business that I'd like to focus on given our results – direct to consumer, footwear, and Asia-Pacific."
	Timothy Arcuri Thanks a lot.
	"From on-boarding to daily use, we have opportunity to make this much easier."
	"And with that, I’ll turn the call over to Brian."
	We have a couple different models on how that will come out.
	"Over this last quarter, we’re continuing to see strong growth as we roll out all different types of AI solutions, both across the U.S. and worldwide, to these overall customers."
	And there are so many different versions of these language models.
	But why don't you go ahead and lead?
	And then just I was hoping can you give a little bit more color on the puts and takes for 2020.
	And can you give us a sense of the mix between services and components at this point?
	Question-and-Answer Session Operator Thank you.
	"And so, I think the way to think about Volta is that it’s surely in its prime, and it’s going to keep continue to do well all the way through next year."
	Our effective tax rate for Q3 was 17.9% on a GAAP basis and 18.3% on a non-GAAP basis.
	Keith Block Yes.
	"For a discussion of these risks and uncertainties, please see the risks described in our most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings with the SEC."
	We have some headwinds in there.
	"And as you fast forward to other initiatives, our intention is we want to derive all those types of benefits when we’re launching a product."
	Your line is now open.
	This is incorporated into our guidance.
	"I know you said, on average, $7 billion per year, but it seems like maybe 2020 might be a little bit higher than that."
	"So we are paying a lot of attention to all the dynamics at play, specifically looking at misinformation and misleading information and how that affects, haven't broken out what we did with 2016, but we do – we have put a lot of focus on our transparency sooner, making sure that people have visibility into how people and who is spending for political, both candidate and also issue ads."
	"And as John alluded to before, we're also emphasizing operational excellence throughout the company."
	And we'll continue to see that as we get into fiscal year 2020.
	Please proceed with your question.
	We got the SUPER line of GPUs.
	"So if you do show up into the app or in the website expressing a particular interest like basketball or deep learning or cryptocurrency, you will find, say immediately a list or be able to pick from a topic that will give you a rich set of accounts and also tweets immediately into your timeline, which we think will help pretty dramatically."
	"Now, throughout the quarter, we continue to build and strengthen our relationships with leading brands around the world."
	"As you know when we talk about renewables, the bulk of our revenue today comes from our onshore wind business."
	This is important because it removes the burden of reporting from victims and paired with a much more robust appeals process increases our correctness of enforcement.
	"We recently celebrated the one-year anniversary of our China digital partnership with Alibaba, and I'm pleased to share that we surpassed our goal of expanding Starbucks Delivers to 3,000 stores in 100 cities by the end of the fiscal year."
	"While sales of internal hyperscale use were muted, the engineering focus on AI is growing."
	"But just when you look at some of the investments that you guys are making and now with Oppenheimer, on the platform, I know it's tough to predict, but do you see some areas that yes, like higher fee, like momentum or trends versus some of the areas that are going to pressure that fee rate overtime."
	"With this announcement, NVIDIA will accelerate all major CPU architectures, including x86, POWER and ARM."
	Allen Parker Let me close our call by thanking all of you for your questions and for joining our third quarter conference call.
	It's very clear.
	We closely monitor our commercial portfolio for signs of weakness and credit quality indicators remains strong.
	"Americas' non-GAAP operating margin contracted by 100 basis points to 20.2% in Q4 primarily due to the onetime investment in our leadership conference as we've discussed on previous calls growth in wages and benefits and increased investments in labor hours to elevate the in-store experience, while accommodating higher volumes."
	Greg McGreevey Yes.
	The Ohio order yes was in 3Q.
	"So it’s not a big deal for us, just in general."
	"Is there a dollar amount that you can provide on that increase or I think at one point you did talk about the headcount increase, maybe you could update that and we can make some estimates if you can't give us a dollar amount?"
	"We’re really excited about what our growth opportunity is from new unit standpoint in United States, so very excited about that."
	And that is different from what we are seeing in our U.S. where delivery is in the very early stages and growing more immodesty.
	"And if you breakdown the labor leverage, we had labor leverage of about 60 basis points in the quarter and that’s despite the fact that we had about 100 basis points of inflation challenge that we had to deal with."
	How you think about the marriage of the cloud footprint and the on-premise footprint?
	So we don't see any reason to make that pivot going forward.
	I was wondering if you either quantify that or talk about what products that that is benefiting and what geographies?
	"As everybody recalls, several of the regulators made public statements earlier in the year in which they express their disappointment with the progress we've made up until that time."
	"Moving forward, we expect quarterly deferral to range between 20 basis points and 40 basis points based on various factors including the pace of signups and promotional activity."
	"From a Q4 production, we are now back up and running and all of our plans are running all out."
	"Along with the tax reform funded investments in partner wages and benefits that we initiated in fiscal 2018, we invested in additional labor hours in Q4 to build on our positive sales momentum drive higher levels of customer connection and explore opportunities to unlock capacity in stores that we believe are best positioned to capture incremental sales at peak."
	"Although, we have job for everybody that was impacting by the un-allocation of three plans, we wanted to give them options and so there is a target there from that perspective."
	"Essentially, our business is normalized."
	So we're still seeing improvement in growth in our relationships and our digital platforms.
	We look at Detroit-Hamtramck is a great opportunity and company now getting an appropriate labor agreement there.
	The other thing I'll mention is that we continue to grow at peak in our morning peak time frame and we're seeing actually growth across all dayparts.
	All of our commercial and consumer real estate portfolios were in a net recovery position in the third quarter.
	"And with that, let me turn the over to Marc Benioff."
	"And so, building product for them that will help them train, compete and recover in is going to really be our difference, I think."
	"Loren Starr I think, in terms of pipeline as we send, we’re gaining traction in some of the places that were quite successful in China, Greater China."
	"So, very excited about that product and what it will for us."
	Thank you.
	Clearly a tough comp in equipment both in steam and nuclear and we are seeing some service pressure both -- in both of those businesses.
	It's really amazing what's happening at Salesforce.
	"It also includes 20 basis point additional investment related to our restaurant level performance incentives including the crew bonus, Brian mentioned earlier."
	Alexandra Walvis Fantastic.
	"For those of you know, we also something about to come out which is my -- our new book Trailblazer, the Power of Business is the greatest platform for Change including many of the concepts pioneered by Klaus Schwab here at the World Economic Forum in Geneva."
	"We've demonstrated that we now are starting to understand how to do that and that is definitely, to Kevin's point, one of the unlocks for the company going forward."
	We do expect that impact to begin in 2020 in Japan ought to be one of the primary beneficiaries.
	"So Gas Power services, in the contractual book we actually have been seeing factored fired hours up."
	Can you give us an update on where we are on promotionality and getting the customer a little bit more used to the fact that Under Armour is not going to be as on sale that it has been in the last couple of years?
	"What we’ll obviously want to continue to understand, which we’ve got some understanding on is, what happens to all those new users that came in now that they’ve experienced the Chipotle business and historically, Chipotle has been very sticky beyond just one product, it’s the whole value proposition that get people excited about Chipotle."
	Thanks for taking the question.
	"So more than half of that $1 billion was really due to the absence of that, which is a real positive for us."
	So I was wondering if you could just talk about the elements that drove that?
	This optionality should be seen as a sign that our efforts are beginning to pay off and a demonstration that we are committed to our long-term strategy.
	"And with that, I’d like to turn it over to Jack."
	GE was in hydro at one time.
	So really what you see happening is a combination of things.
	"This is ahead of our expectations, largely driven by continued Power stabilization and better-than-expected progress on the supply chain finance transition."
	I think I'll kick it off and I'll see if my partner here wants to chime in.
	"We're now at more than 2,600 stores across 15 cities and we're continuing to expand that program."
	"So, I guess the low single-digit growth rates for loans and deposits is probably a reasonable proxy for a reasonable placeholder for thinking about how 2020 unfolds, could be a range of different outcomes, but that would be consistent with what I mentioned earlier in terms of how you might forecast the different rate paths and getting to a low to mid single-digits down percentage in net interest income for 2020 versus 2019."
	"We'll report our Q4 earnings and the full year on February 6, before the market opens."
	And that is the same conversation that is going on in every industry.
	And our capabilities in those markets continues to evolve in a way that's relevant to the customer mix in each of those two markets.
	Please go ahead.
	"You can find a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures in our CFO commentary, which is posted on our website."
	"The number of games, the blockbuster games that adopted RTX is really snowballing."
	Is that considered to be core to the renewables portfolio and that would be helpful.
	Kevin Plank Thanks very much.
	"However, we have a lot of work to do in many areas, as the loss profits from the work stoppage were significant."
	"We expect non-GAAP EPS in the range of $3 to $3.05, representing growth of 6% to 8%."
	It's high yielding that's rolling off.
	We've got 28 SKUs that we've launched across four different platforms.
	"So on the four points of impact to Q4, the four or more points that we talked about, there will be some bleed over from those into future periods."
	And then the other third area that's really hot these days is this whole robotic process automation.
	Nicole DeBlase So I just want to talk a little bit about Industrial margins.
	"Erika Najarian Hi, good morning."
	"And in the area of innovation and technology, we made several important announcements during the third quarter."
	I have two.
	So right now we're seeing good movement in that space.
	"To give a little more color here, along with our connected products continuing to drive increased brand strength, newly launched training plans for gym workouts and nutrition plans for premium members add to our growing confidence that we are building more sustainable momentum in this business."
	Larry will speak more to the dynamics here when he addresses our outlook.
	"We've consolidated 130 branches in the first nine months of this year, including 52 branches in the third quarter."
	Our FY 2020 non-GAAP operating margin guide is the result of several factors.
	Or is there more to be had or even less because you’re not up to where you need to be?
	"Scott Siefers John, sort of a follow-up question on costs, I guess if I look at the reiterated 2019 expense guide, it implies a pretty meaningful downdraft in costs in the 4Q, maybe if you could just take a moment to go through sort of the puts and takes and how you bring costs down in the coming quarter?"
	"And as you're trying to wash through some of the excess, there's a time component to that, of course, and you're not immune to what's going on around you in the marketplace."
	But setting this up truly for the long term.
	"It's been about Brexit transition has been a long and difficult, but from our perspective, where it's really come to light where you can feel it."
	"And as Patrik detailed, inventory was down 23% to $907 million, which was better than expected."
	"Consolidated revenue was $23.4 billion flat to prior year, with Industrial segment revenues up 3% reported and 7% organically."
	Matt Ramsay Thank you very much.
	"There were some temporary business transition activities, in fiscal 2019."
	Randy Konik Great.
	"Year-to-date, we've collected $9 billion of proceeds."
	"Excluding these items, corporate costs would be in line with our original outlook of $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion."
	"Coming in well ahead of our expectations, we posted a 23% decline in inventory, improving service levels and much tighter buys to customer demand, coupled with product selling through at a rate higher than we had anticipated means we've had lower returns and, therefore, don't have as much excess product to sell in the off-price channel."
	"They are asking us about their peers, their competitors and how are they transforming."
	[Operator Instructions] We do have our first question from Ken Worthington with JPMorgan.
	"And then, you know, just to throw a couple of things like there's still some assets where it seems like you're over earning, like in the securities book, but there's also some deposits that you're overpaying."
	But can you give us more color regarding what you're seeing in China and Healthcare Systems specifically and the outlook for that business?
	And then would you expect this kind of headwind from MAX to basically flip positive kind of over the year following the MAX coming back to services?
	We did see slight benefits from improved mix partially due to our recently launch vehicle.
	"On a sequential basis, avocado pricing moderated as we expected."
	"Jonathan Komp Okay, great."
	I think we asked that question a couple of different times on the call.
	"They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from our expectations."
	"So yes, so all the systems have converted over to our systems from Oppenheimer."
	"Moving to data center, revenue was $655 million, down 14% year-on-year and up 3% sequentially."
	Brian Niccol Yes.
	And one that impact of that was to reclassify stored value card breakage from the interest in other line below operating income and outside of segment results to the revenue line at the segment level.
	Our next question comes from Jay Sole with UBS.
	"A large number of gaming laptops are rolling out, and our new Studio platform is reaching the large underserved community of creators."
	"Furthermore, the operating and financial strength of the combined firm enable us to return $440 million to common shareholders during the quarter through dividends and stock buybacks."
	And so that simplifies things for our partners.
	Year-on-year and sequential growth was led by record revenue for mobile workstations with strong demand for new thin and light form factors.
	Maybe point to kind of four or five areas to get to the specific question that you asked on.
	Year-to-date we have 130 bps decline.
	"Globally and across each of our operating segments, non-GAAP operating margin is expected to improve modestly over fiscal 2019, primarily due to sales leverage, cost savings initiatives across our supply chain and overhead efficiencies."
	"And we will build on this momentum, with incremental partner investments in fiscal year 2020."
	"Dhivya Suryadevara Yes, we will be very clear about how much of our 2020 free cash flow guidance comes from the working capital rewind and we will also be clear about how much of the cash based earnings i.e., the operating cash flow if you will and what that is year-over-year."
	Mary Barra I believe it'll be EV.
	And that includes the beneficial impact of the share repurchases that were funded with the after-tax upfront cash payment from Nestlé.
	"When you think about some of the things that brought down – why we're guiding -- lowered the 180, some of that is around store build cost efficiencies which have been great to drive through."
	"And finally, we completed our annual goodwill test, recognizing a non-cash impairment charge of $740 million at hydro, a renewable energy business we acquired from Alstom."
	"At the beginning of this year, we resolved to break from only acting on reports of abuse and harassment, to proactively identifying tweets and conduct that violates our terms of service."
	"From a just from the tax rate perspective, the revised rate is primarily because the strike impact is you got to apply the U.S. tax rate to that strike impact, which is about 25% effective tax rate, that we're applying there."
	"Right now, it's an incredible company with a fantastic product and leadership team."
	"Our average deposit cost of 71 basis points increased 1 basis point from the second quarter, the lowest linked quarter increase since the fourth quarter of 2016."
	"[Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded Tuesday October 29, 2019."
	"My quick, I think the rotation is starting to happen from a growth to value."
	Operator That was our last question today.
	"And I just add, just listening to our conversation today, we just have so many opportunities in different channels to work in, within the United States retail institutional globally and our focus continues to be there."
	You've talked about the increased spending in regulation compliance controls related areas versus two or three years ago.
	"And I think, what we just wanted to share with people is, a greater blend of that will now include Chipotlane, which we’ve accelerated the composition of Chipotlanes in our new unit kind of growth trajectory going forward."
	But I wouldn't point to any one particular- underlying metric when we think was driving DAU growth because we’re seeing benefit from many of them.
	"In just 7 months, we have achieved up to 80% speed-ups enabled by new algorithms and software optimizations across the full stack while using the same hardware."
	We maintained breakeven levels in the 10 million to 11 million unit range in the U.S. and therefore preserved our ability to navigate through a downturn.
	"You probably know it's almost sold out, so you better register now."
	There are areas of the country and there are individual stores where the digital business is not at that same 18%.
	We also continue to invest in beverage innovation.
	One of the key areas of outflows we’re experiencing is centered in U.S. retail space and that is largely due to the shortfall and gross sales that we expect will ultimately be corrected.
	"Just to put that into context, you've seen in our report our reported earnings the growth of the Starbucks Rewards program."
	"We delivered strong Industrial segment organic revenue growth of 7%, with growth across all businesses, except Power, where Gas Power was up but Power portfolio was down."
	Current RPO which is approximately $12.1 billion was up 23% year-over-year and on a constant currency basis was up 25%.
	"And at some point it will not be a risk off world and we anticipate, we are participating very strongly in it."
	"We think we’ll probably run out around the end of November, maybe into early December."
	Heather Bellini Great.
	"You said they increased at 131, but what's the run rate?"
	"But what you would see from a cash balance standpoint is that recovery starting in the second quarter of next year, into the rest of 2020."
	"And then, ultimately, that then gives you less returns, right?"
	"Moving to corporate, adjusted operating costs were $303 million in the quarter, up year-over-year, primarily due to timing of higher-profit eliminations related to spare engine sales to GECAS in anticipation of the MAX return to service."
	"Power Portfolio orders were down 54% reported and down 34% organically, largely driven by steam power system down 49% due to a non-repeat of a large nuclear equipment supply contract."
	"And based on the early success of Chipotlanes, we shifted our real estate strategy to seek more sites that can accommodate a Chipotlane."
	We'll see that.
	"Unidentified Analyst And then, just a last clarification question."
	And one of the things that’s really exciting is our RTX Studio line that we introduced recently.
	That doesn’t sound like broad-based growth to me unless like did the hyperscalers get worse or are they just still so much bigger than like the rest of it?
	Operator And your next question comes from the line of Timothy Arcuri with UBS.
	"And the other thing is, you can -- we think that again people wait and look and see if there is going to special attrition program, but then we also do see the natural attrition over the course of the agreement."
	"Loren, I just wanted to kind of clarify, because previously you guys had walked through the synergy, the expense synergy quarter by quarter, and you've upsized the ultimate target."
	And we'll take the next question from Twitter.
	We look forward to delighting gamers with the best performance in ray tracing as we get into the back to school and holiday shopping seasons.
	Kevin Johnson Yes.
	"And if you look at if you do channel checks all over, even though we’ve got a lot of products in the channel and we last quarter was a transitional quarter for us actually."
	Omar Saad Thanks.
	"We are increasing our 2019 outlook for adjusted corporate costs to negative $1.5 billion to $1.7 billion, largely driven by the higher profit eliminations and increased EH&S reserves."
	We've been spending a lot of time post the merger between investments marketing and distribution.
	Jonathan Komp Yeah.
	But we’re very positive on which Chipotlane brings to our new unit program and why we’re raising guidance for next year.
	"Brian Niccol Yes, Sara."
	Our next question comes from Paul Lejuez with Citi Research.
	Operator Your next question comes from the line of John Pancari with Evercore.
	"But yes, this one initially was intended to be more of a product represent some news and we may use it again depending on how the whole experience plays out."
	"Thanks, Kathy."
	"So, I think both the front end and the backend is working incredibly well for us in APAC."
	No change to the full year guidance from zero to 100 bps expansion.
	And the professionalization of the company wasn't meaning that we weren't professional before.
	"With that, I'll turn it over to Kevin."
	I had two.
	This is Dave.
	"Earnings per share adjusted for unusual items of $3.82, representing 77% year-over-year growth and digital sales growth of 88% year-over-year representing 18.3% of sales."
	"Brian Niccol Yes, sure."
	"So, some of that moves around a little bit in the progress line."
	Operator Your next question comes from the line of Matt Ramsay with Cowen.
	"And in Q3, I'd say rather that we go through a normal tour process from a warranty perspective and there were some top ups relative to that as well, but that was on the smaller side of things, that you capture that."
	But there's work to do.
	It's easier to control.
	How much incremental opportunity there is on the in-store experience?
	"Most people talking and asking questions and talking to their mobile devices and looking for something or asking for directions instead of having a page of – a list of options, it responds with an answer that is very likely a good one."
	"John Shrewsberry Yes, well, so with IRT, I think we actually have a -- this page in the back of the supplement that shows you exactly what to expect there, and not to oversimplify it, but it's on the order of $100 million a quarter I think from both revenue and expense, at least as we process it."
	"Kevin, I know we've talked a little bit about footwear."
	The combination of our energy-efficient Turing architecture and Max-Q technology enables beautifully crafted thin and light form factors that can deliver the performance of high-end gaming desktop or our next-generation console.
	"The corporate team is making steady progress on gross headcount reductions eliminating approximately 7,000 in 2019."
	"We’re also moving forward on an effort to bring battery cell production to the Mahoney Valley in Ohio, which will create 1,000 manufacturing jobs."
	Okay.
	"Kenneth Lee Hi, thanks for taking the question."
	The webcast will be available for replay until the conference call to discuss our financial results for the third quarter of fiscal 2020.
	"Working with the higher beta customers to make sure that we reduce those as quickly as possible, there is probably more room to run on that with a little bit of divestiture time that could be a benefit."
	"Overall, backlog of $27 billion was up 6% sequentially and up 19% year-over-year."
	This new technology should drive operational efficiencies by providing longer operating windows and real-time processing.
	Any updated thoughts on what could be like a long term potential organic growth expectations for the combined Invesco and OppenheimerFunds complex?
	Jeffrey Bernstein Great.
	"So now only four months post the close of the acquisition of Oppenheimer made tremendous progress, bringing the two organizations together, and you can see by this quarter it's generating meaningful results already."
	Please go ahead.
	Jake Bartlett Okay.
	"And it's not just, minutes per hour of and the way we design a job, it's much broader than that."
	If you'd give us some more color on that.
	Your line is now open.
	Jeffrey Bernstein Thank you.
	"Beginning this quarter, its historical results are now reported in discontinued operations for all periods."
	"As we've previously said, we have substantial sources to delever and derisk our balance sheet while the low interest rate environment increases amounts required to delever under our original plan, we had planned conservatively and believe that we are on track to achieve our goals inclusive of the impact of lower interest rates on our net debt."
	"Invesco Ltd. (NYSE:IVZ) Q3 2019 Earnings Conference Call October 23, 2019 9:00 AM ET EPS of $0.7 beats by $0.13 Revenue of $1.23B (27.08% Y/Y) beats by $4.6M  Company Participants Marty Flanagan – President and CEO Loren Starr – Chief Financial Officer Greg McGreevey – Senior Managing Director, Investments Conference Call Participants Ken Worthington – JPMorgan Mike Carrier – Bank of America Brian Bedell – Deutsche Bank Ryan Bailey – Goldman Sachs Brennan Hawken – UBS Patrick Davitt – Autonomous Research Bill Katz – Citi Dan Fannon – Jefferies Michael Cyprys – Morgan Stanley Glenn Schorr – Evercore Kenneth Lee – RBC Capital Markets Unidentified Company Representative Good morning, and thank you all for joining us."
	"Segment margins of 21.2% contracted by 110 basis points reported and as in prior quarters this was driven primarily by the CFM to LEAP transition, a 230 basis point drag and Passport engine shipments an 80 basis point drag in the quarter."
	"John Pancari Okay, that's helpful."
	"You'll take note, we've been investing for quite some time to get more scale and capability there and we're pleased to see some progress on that."
	Just nice cash flow continuing to come through there better than we expected.
	"And then the second one, I know in the past, you talked about efforts to bring on more advertisers and DR advertising, just talk us through some of the one or two key steps still to take to bring on more advertisers and really crack into the DR budgets?"
	We look forward to updating you on our progress next quarter.
	"For example, in retail, Wal-Mart is using NVIDIA GPUs to run some of its product demand forecasting models, slashing the time to do so in just 4 hours from several weeks on CPUs."
	But one thing that is slightly different is product mix.
	I mean it's not that far off either of where we are today or what's likely to unfold.
	Just to give you a few numbers there.
	Brad Zelnick Thanks so much and congrats again on a fantastic quarter.
	Just wanted to turn to free cash flow and you talked -- you've disclosed $4.4 billion of working capital headwinds in your free cash year-to-date.
	"Allen Parker Yes, so on the origination side, it's hard to say what the full quarter gain on sale is, but we do think it'll be in the neighborhood of where it's been recently, it was just, call it, 120 basis points, which was a big tick up and welcome."
	"So, I'm highly confident that we'll be able to given those skills to return back to what we would expect that group and what they historically have produced in terms of performance."
	"Mary Barra I think first we're going to work to offset and then we're going to keep going, we won't stop when we get there."
	"We have all of our notebooks that were designed into that we are ramping and of course, the new RTX Studio line."
	Please go ahead.
	"Joseph Spak Just to start on maybe some of the cash flow dynamics you mentioned, the CapEx lowered this year."
	I spent about a four-week trip where I was in Japan.
	We currently expect MBS premium amortization to continue to increase in the fourth quarter but at a slower pace.
	"And then, from the point of the digital relationships, the more we learn about our customer base, the better we had been marketing to them."
	Jake Bartlett Great.
	"So, what accelerates sales from here?"
	That’s how we end up with a successful initiative.
	Operator Thank you.
	There are three key points that I want to emphasize today.
	"We had 11 majors including the Buick, which is a battery electric vehicle, the Buick Encore, Buick Encore GX, the Chevrolet Onix, the Chevrolet Trailblazer, and Tracker and then the Cadillac XT6 and then some Baojun products as well."
	"And then with respect to China, if you could just talk about investments there and maybe even the product mix, you talked about as being unfavorable."
	This was intended to be a seasonal offering where we would bring it in-and-out.
	"As you know, we have a ratified labor agreement and I am very glad that our highly skilled employees are back to work building winning cars, trucks, crossovers and components."
	"Looks like the services piece of that is getting to be bigger, what’s the outlook for that part of the business?"
	"Rough calculations, Larry, Jamie for Aviation suggesting maybe sitting on a pretty sizable cash advance built up over the years."
	"We've done nine of those this year, just to give you a sense, it's a terrific way for us to add great teams and great people to the company who can further our purpose."
	"What was it, 9% linked quarter?"
	"Now based on where we are right now, we're expecting a little more than half of that 737 MAX deficit to be made up by this build in payables that then will push into 2020 and shift back down to your point."
	"The way I would think about margins is I think most of the leverage, it’s from flow through."
	And I'd also like to thank our dealers who helped us sustain our momentum in the marketplace and they worked very hard to minimize the inconvenience to our customers caused by our limited ability to shift service and repair part.
	"And this is an underserved segment of the market where consumers, enthusiasts, they could be artists that are working on small firms, they need powerful computers to do their work."
	Operator Your next question comes from the line of Sharon Zackfia with William Blair.
	Operator Next question will be from Gregory Frankfurt with Bank of America.
	"With the XT6 joining the lineup, we expect Cadillac will further strengthen its position in China's growing luxury SUV segment."
	"But data centers data center infrastructure really has to be planned properly, and the build-out takes time."
	"So, the ability to add additional days is limited."
	"Patrik Frisk Thanks, Omar."
	"So, now, let's turn to our third quarter results."
	Thanks.
	"From a timing perspective, even though we pull forward in 2019, we still think we can achieve that."
	"So is this the sort of program while not – maybe not commenting specific to any program, because I know you wouldn't want to do that until then front run."
	Operator The next question comes from Peter Saleh with BTIG.
	"And then as we look forward as we rollout more EVs, initially we’re going to see some margin headwind there."
	"This quarter, we held sessions with each of our businesses designed to answer two fundamental questions."
	"This is leading to us attracting and retaining the right talent and having higher teams stability, which is allowing them to spend more time together and deliver on two important benefits."
	"Integration of two sales team are well underway, and in fact, going quite well, but they’re not yet complete."
	"And I'm pleased to share that our board has approved a 14% dividend increase this quarter, making the 10th consecutive year that we've increased our dividend by a double-digit percentage."
	"And I just would call out and say that look, we're incredibly excited, but as discussed at the beginning of the call, we're running the companies separately right now as operating independently."
	"Scott Siefers Good morning, guys."
	"Colette Kress Great, so let me start first with your question, Vivek, regarding gross margins."
	This doesn't represent a lack of access as these represents bugs and these are issues that we identified quickly and are working quick to fix.
	"But with that said, there is opportunity for us to deliver more net synergies to the bottom line beyond the $501 million."
	"And third, the seasonality doesn't really seem like it seasonality, it seems like it's more there is a new term for it or we need to come up with one like eventuality or something, you just didn't have a large number of traffic driving or interest driving events and therefore, you had a bit of a shortfall, maybe that's just part of Twitter going forwards, if you have big events, World Cup or political elections or whatever you have, you're going to have more traffic."
	Brian Nowak Great.
	"John Shrewsberry Yes, that's a good question."
	So a number of steps to mitigate risk and clean up the GE portfolio.
	But when I look at just over the slide that continues to sort of point to flattish flow Page 5 – flattish flows overall.
	"So on Chipotlanes, could you – Jack give us any idea on kind of what the incremental cost is when you add the Chipotlanes to locations and maybe what the unit economics are that we should think about for 2020 associated with those new openings?"
	"Additionally, I’m pleased to announce that we have finished installing our digital make lines in all relevant restaurants and this was completed slightly ahead of schedule and makes the system more efficient for our guests, team members and delivery partners, while driving more sales and loyalty for Chipotle."
	I don’t think we’re disclosing exactly what the AUVs are on this.
	"For a discussion of factors that could affect our future financial results and business, please refer to the disclosure in today’s earnings release, our most recent Form 10-K and 10-Q and the reports that we may file on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission."
	"The last part of your second question was around, Japan, an international more broadly from a revenue perspective."
	"So a lot of growth opportunities in front of Chipotle, a tremendous quarter I think that the team delivered most recently and couldn't be prouder of where we are, but I'm also really excited about where we're going."
	"Lloyd Walmsley Thanks, Two if I can."
	"Lastly, regarding our long term FY 2023 revenue target, we continue to be on track for this and to achieve our long term revenue goals on an organic basis."
	I think our team driving even customer success there in it to really help deliver an even better performance while also scaling.
	"The cadence of our heavy-duty lunch helped a lot from a mix 10 points since we're rolling out, crew cab for the most part."
	"Now, back to the quarter at hand."
	"These three things define who we are, how we show up, and ultimately how we will maximize our long-term potential."
	"Good morning, folks."
	"I think like a lot of people and with the expectation of lower rates shortening up initial terms, so that we are not overpaying for a longer period of time, they might have previously felt like it was necessary in a rising rate environment."
	"Good morning, everyone."
	"This past quarter, we added Einstein case routing, so we can route support cases that people have the best skill to provide the best customer experience at the right time."
	"I believe we still have a lot of opportunity in executing our five key strategies, which are; number one, making the brand more visible and loved; number two, running successful restaurants with a strong culture that provides great food, hospitality and throughput; number three, leveraging our digital make line to grow sales and expand access; number four, engaging with our customers by launching a new loyalty program; and number five, creating a stage-gate process for innovations."
	We appreciate your interest in Twitter and we look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
	"Allen Parker Yes, so I think when Charlie arrives, we'll conduct a complete strategic review of where all the businesses stand and where we -- what our opportunities are, et cetera, including a review of how we've been investing on the risk compliance side, et cetera, and then formulate a view going forward."
	"Jack Hartung No, I mean Jeff we have no plans to do that, that could change as the year unfolds."
	So we saw sales accelerate at the end of the quarter and then we saw those higher sales levels continue into October.
	"So I would say that the weakness is predominantly more on the international front, the volatility that we're seeing."
	"As Patrik likes to say, the plan is still the plan."
	"Just wanted to get some of your thoughts, whether any of the recent regulatory activity or Brexit have been changing client preferences over the past year?"
	Sharon Zackfia That’s helpful.
	Our luxury sedan portfolio updates continue with the launch of the all new CT5 midsize luxury sedan in China this quarter by early next year by the U.S. built CT5 and CT4 in North America.
	And we're obviously focused on continuing to drive that message throughout the whole quarter.
	So I think what you here from us though as a team that is committed to finding the right offsets to go forward and maintain and improve our competiveness.
	A huge economy is developing around Salesforce one that will create more than 3 million jobs and more than 860 billion GDP impact worldwide by 2022 and we'll continue to create opportunities for everyone to participate.
	"Below the operating income line, we expect considerably higher interest expense ranging between $415 million and $425 million in fiscal 2020 versus approximately $330 million in fiscal 2019."
	"As you all know, Charlie Scharf will join Wells Fargo next week as our new CEO and President."
	"So my first question is you made the comment that one of the areas of expenses that you expect to be helping you meet your full-year guidance is from that other professional fees line item, and I was just curious if you have any more color around why that might be dropping?"
	And our total member base is now in China sitting at 32.5 million which is up 66% over a year ago.
	"Attrition also remain healthy in Q2 as we have seen over the past several quarters, with dollar attrition continuing to decline modestly year-over-year remaining below 10%."
	It's really been the recent market environment in the short run has kind of impacted our performance notwithstanding with the positive things that have happened on year-to-date basis.
	"And so I think that's part of the reason when we kind of look at our year-to-date performance improvement, it's really the result of some of those factors that has kind of allowed our performance to improve the $64,000 question is always, is that going to continue?"
	So breakage will not be a driver of margin performance in fiscal 2020.
	Please go ahead.
	"And when you think about Q4, obviously, we're implying a higher growth rate in Q4."
	"It's a place where we know that there is millions of small businesses throughout the service, where we could help them more in reaching our customers on Twitter."
	"And you mentioned yourself, John, that the investments in risk compliance and data had exceeded your expectations."
	"And of course, one of them is as AI is well known now to require accelerated computing, our computing architecture is really ideal for it."
	"How does the go to market strategy evolved as you attacked a breadth and complexity of markets that the world has simply just not seen, and there's no recipe to follow?"
	The amount by which we're talking about it changing frankly isn't indicative of a giant pivot one way or the other; it's still a category that's too high.
	"Good afternoon, everyone and welcome to NVIDIA’s conference call for the second quarter of fiscal 2020."
	"What's really exciting about what we're going to do in Q4 is we're able to spend against more upper funnel brand marketing, which is helpful for us as we'll take learnings from that and enable a more precise spend, if you like, in 2020."
	"Jen-Hsun Huang With the exception of a couple of hyperscalers, C.J., I would – we’re seeing broad-based growth in data centers."
	We feel like our foundation is strong and we're looking forward to reigniting the Under Armour brand as we continue into the next chapter.
	"Powered by our RTX GPUs and optimized software, RTX Studio laptops deliver performance that’s up to 7x faster than that of the MacBook Pro."
	"Maybe if I'm wondering if you could just go into just the integration process and you realize obviously you've hit the $500 million of cost, but like you said there's definitely so more work to do."
	"We now expect revenue to be up approximately 2% compared to our previous expectation of 3% to 4%, driven by lower-than-planned excess inventory to service the off-price channel, ongoing traffic and conversion challenges in direct to consumer, and continued negative impacts from changes in foreign currency."
	Thank you.
	"Second, the chart clearly highlights that the deal has had an impact on our gross sales levels."
	John Inch Thank you.
	Gaming is doing great.
	And can you talk specifically about how delivery has performed in this quarter relative to prior quarters?
	We see efficiencies on how we designed vehicles and components from the DFMEA perspective.
	"At Gas Power, fixed costs were down 12% in the quarter, as we progress on our two-year $800 million fixed cost reduction target."
	Justin Post Great.
	That’s the first question.
	"So, from a year-over-year Delta perspective, that impacts as well."
	"For example, we received the industry's first FDA clearance to embed AI apps on a medical device for triage in our critical care suite this quarter."
	"We also have factoring programs coming down for the year too both through the continued runoff of our long-term accounts receivable, some decisions we've made to exit or discontinue higher-cost programs."
	"We’re pleased with our third quarter financial performance, which reflects further progress on our key strategic initiatives that are providing guests with a great experience and positioning the business to deliver above industry growth for many years to come."
	Can we just maybe bridge how you guys get there with respect to the implied 4Q guidance?
	This impact was partially offset by approximately $300 million and strike related favorable of timing items.
	"I would now like to turn the conference over to Rocky Gupta, Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations."
	"So again, I would point you to kind of our past experience, the same kind of set of ratios that you’ve seen in the past in terms of how complexes with revenues and assets."
	"Finally, turning to automotive, Q2 revenue was $209 million, up 30% from a year ago and up 26% sequentially."
	"They are using Trailhead, our free online digital learning platform to get the skills they need for the jobs in the digital economy."
	"Some of our comments today may contain forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions."
	Brennan Hawken It does.
	Operator The next question will be from David Tarantino with Baird.
	"Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update any such statements."
	We're operating a tremendous scale.
	"And then, you spoke to a planned step up in brand marketing, turn from defense to offense."
	"Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation on today's conference."
	David Bergman Sure Alex.
	"We do think that Europe is got a lot of opportunity, particularly as we build out the solutions capabilities and we are meeting the needs around fixed income and general use of factors and other capabilities that have been part of our growth engine story for some time."
	"At Power, we're focused on daily management, improving transactional services and cost-out initiatives."
	John Shrewsberry Yes.
	So those we still we'll get all those done this year and I'm not going to give any more specifics on timing.
	But it's often cost prohibitive or too complex to do so.
	The hundreds of customers that Marc and I meet with every quarter are looking for a vision and they're looking for strategy that will help them propel their growth and to get closer to their customers.
	"The approval process is progressing as expected, and we continue to work toward closing the deal by the end of this calendar year."
	"Under Armour, Inc. (NYSE:UAA) Q3 2019 Results Earnings Conference Call November 4, 2019 8:30 AM ET EPS of $0.23 beats by $0.04 Revenue of $1.43B (-0.94% Y/Y) beats by $13.94M  Company Participants Lance Allega - Senior Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Development Kevin Plank - Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Patrik Frisk - President and Chief Operating Officer David Bergman - Chief Financial Officer Conference Call Participants Alexandra Walvis - Goldman Sachs Jonathan Komp - Robert W. Baird Erinn Murphy - Piper Jaffray Randy Konik - Jefferies Edward Yruma - KeyBanc Capital Markets Robert Drbul - Guggenheim Securities Jim Duffy - Stifel Nicolaus Paul Lejuez - Citigroup Jay Sole - UBS Omar Saad - Evercore ISI Jared Orr - Cowen and Company Operator Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Under Armour, Inc. Third Quarter Earnings Webcast and Conference Call."
	Our next question comes from Dan Fannon with Jefferies.
	Colette Kress Sure.
	"You called out Field Service Lightning strength in your prepared remarks, but I'd love to hear any additional color in terms of competition win rates and also how you see the products coming together with ClickSoftware coming into the fold?"
	"And given Mark Hawkins talked about it on the call, the fiscal 2023 target there -- are there any thoughts of maybe ever adding a margin target to the [Indiscernible] inorganic number?"
	"Overall in the third quarter, we delivered net revenue of $35.5 billion, EBITDA adjusted of $3 billion, EBIT adjusted margin of 8.4%, EBIT, EPS diluted adjusted of $1.72, automotive adjusted free cash flow of $3.8 billion, and a ROIC adjusted of $21.9 on a trailing four quarters basis."
	This is Patrik.
	Is that – is the previous timeline still intact or you accelerating the timeline too?
	"And this is where companies are using it not just to accelerate the business process internally, but they’re using AI to create new products and services."
	Those are the normalizing items from GM Financial perspective.
	"The additional part of autonomous vehicles and where the capability has been derived and is going to seal up more near-term opportunities has to do with things like delivery shuttles, self-driving shuttles and maybe cargo movers inside walled warehouses."
	Thanks for taking the question.
	"And especially in Q3, we're annualizing some off-price coming out of 2018."
	"John Shrewsberry Yes, so on the second half, I think you answered that, which is we should wait and allow him to have an input onto the composition of how we're spending money in the future."
	"We shipped 12 gas turbines including five H units and three aeroderivative units in the quarter versus 11 gas turbines in the prior year, which included five H units and two aeroderivative units."
	We have more work to do to deliver our desired level of sustainable and growing free cash flow.
	"Of course there are elections happening on Twitter all the time, all over the world and so we get the opportunity to think through to improve our policies to improve how we give a great experience to people, not just in the United States, but all over the world, all the time."
	We're seeing quite strong demand in almost all markets.
	They have a large amount of data.
	Revenue of $4.9 billion was up 5% reported and organically.
	Allen Parker Good morning.
	Dennis Geiger Great.
	"First of all, Keith I just want to call off for the year as it relates to Tableau we're anticipating $550 million to $600 million contribution for the year, and of course that's not of the DRE [ph] write-down, number one."
	Will they ever service partners with you along this transition.
	"And you can kind of expect that, going forward, as you think about 2020, that the quarterly fall will be a little bit more normalized because those distributor revenues are going to be more heavily weighted in Q2 and Q4."
	"So again, we're hopeful that we can see that product at least stabilize at a minimum as opposed to sort of currently where it's in that flow."
	And so we promoted what the plans were for early July beginning with our flavored iced teas and then the fall beverage lineup highlighted by the pumpkin platform.
	Operator Thank you.
	Kirk Materne Thanks very much and congratulations on the quarter.
	"Before I continue, I want to thank our dedicated suppliers."
	"Please go ahead, sir."
	Invesco makes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
	Please go ahead.
	So we can get to as many as possible.
	But it's still early in the multiyear transformation of GE.
	"And then, foodservice is going to be a big opportunity as we focus in on office, as we focus in on universities, and as we focus in on the five-star hotels."
	"Second, we expect that fiscal 2020 will be another good year for Starbucks, delivering 8% to 10% operating profit growth."
	"As we think about our opportunity in footwear, our expectations have not changed."
	"In the U.S., you've had that mid-teens growth in rewards users."
	And have a great day.
	"The new commercial door concepts, which we're excited about, the amplified marketing that we've talked about, improved e-com fulfillment levels, and then also just having an easier comp for Q4 for North America as well."
	"As Larry mentioned, we sold 144 million shares of Baker Hughes."
	"So to recap, our strong operating performances in the quarter were supported by a robust sale of trucks and crossovers in the United States."
	So we're going to be opportunistic as we go along.
	"But here’s what it is, I think we can give you some interesting facts on it, which is our digital business is roughly 50% bigger and the driver of that additional growth is our order ahead business, which as you know, it has got the best margin associated with our business going forward."
	"I’m not sure, how you’re doing your calculation."
	"Turning to our Business segments starting on page 19, community banking earnings declined $2.1 billion from the second quarter, primarily driven by higher operating losses reflecting higher litigation accruals."
	Operator Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Autonomous Research.
	And I would say that's the goal we set for the end of 2020.
	This call is being recorded.
	"On a regular basis, we have these plans working max overtime."
	"In parallel, we are rethinking the fundamentals of how Twitter works in order to better address the problems we’re seeing."
	But those other areas are the key areas that we're focused on.
	"Loren Starr I mean, I think what we've seen is, there's been a fair amount of outflow in the retail side, particularly in EMEA as that product has underperformed some loss."
	We continue to see very strong economic returns.
	"In addition, within Consumer Banking, we named leaders to new roles that will help us better serve our customers."
	"Operating profit was negative $144 million, up $532 million with segment margins of negative 4%."
	"And again, I think you can see it just more broadly from our ETF flows throughout EMEA that is incredible strong."
	"Starbucks Corporation (NASDAQ:SBUX) Q4 2019 Earnings Conference Call October 30, 2019 4:30 PM ET EPS of $0.7 Revenue of $6.75B (7.03% Y/Y) beats by $59.58M  Company Participants Durga Doraisamy - Vice President of Investor Relations Kevin Johnson - President & Chief Executive Officer Pat Grismer - Chief Financial Officer Roz Brewer - Chief Operating Officer & Group President Americas John Culver - Group President, International Channel Development & Global Coffee & Tea."
	And we introduced a brand-new line of computers that we call RTX Studio.
	And all of those items are fueling the work as Kevin mentioned around machine learning and our applications to fuel Deep Brew.
	"While margins are down 130 basis points organically year-to-date, we continue to expect to hit our full year margin expansion target."
	Our next question comes from Bob Drbul with Guggenheim.
	They get on a few anything in the performance.
	"But I'll tell you one thing that everyone is really excited about here is what happened in the United States which is that the business roundtable, one of the top two business groups in the U.S. published an incredible statement this week on the purpose of a corporation and talked about how the purpose of the corporation is to serve all stakeholders."
	"The innovation, I think the commitment to this brand is really consistent and one you'll continue to see come from us over and over."
	Thank you very much for taking the questions.
	"And again, you can't speak for Charlie, but as you think about how those investments played out relative to investments in, let's say, innovation, and as you think about where you are versus peers, is there a significant catch-up gap because you've spent a lot of those dollars on risk compliance and data, how should we think about investment spend from here?"
	Operator Thank you.
	"So we’re not all the way to where we have targeted, but we are making great progress and our throughput is better than it was last quarter and it’s definitely better than it was two quarters ago."
	"And just like the athletes we serve, this journey is about getting better – better for our teammate, consumers, customers, and our shareholders."
	We're growing where we need to grow.
	"Patrik, do you want to add some more color?"
	Thank you.
	"As we think about North America, we haven't changed our thoughts in any way compared to what we told you guys at the investor day in December last year."
	"Operator Our next question comes from the line of Justin Post of Merrill Lynch, please go ahead."
	"Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us."
	"As you think about what we delivered in Q3, obviously, we mentioned the bigger ones, with the lower off-price sales in the quarter and also the continuing supply chain initiatives of product cost and airfreight."
	"I think Greg, I mean, you can speak to that a little bit if you want."
	Lloyd Walmsley Thank you.
	"In particular, I want to thank Doug Edwards for his strong and thoughtful leadership as our Interim General Counsel during this period of transition."
	You're seeing the draw of this platform and you're seeing how empowering it is for – I think anyone in the world can become a Salesforce developer.
	"There's lots of non-bank competitors, there are more non-bank competitors than bank competitors."
	"At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode."
	Thank you very much.
	"And as part of that question also just trying to understand better the tax rate impact, the new guidance is at the lower tax rate, is that correct?"
	Please proceed with your question.
	"During the quarter, a couple of changes in the way we're operating really began to take root."
	The sequential improvement that you’re guiding to is a pretty significant number.
	That will be some – will be entirely funded by further sort of integration or savings.
	"During this call, we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures."
	And what we're trying to do as a company is really balancing the two and we'll continue to do so and it's a gradual process.
	"We plan to leverage Deep Brew in ways that free up our partners, so that they can spend more time connecting with customers."
	"So I think as you look at all of those vehicles into a market with the uncertainty and the economic issues or the macro issues in China, and say they're all on track, you were correct to note that we did have our first of Chevrolet Onix, which is the global family."
	Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $100 million to $120 million.
	"They are great margin products as long as you can grow them quickly and sort of great scale and those products, we embrace that phenomenon and want to grow that part of the book."
	This is industry-leading domestic growth for a retail business of Starbucks' scale and coupled with relatively low penetration in certain geographies gives us confidence that we'll continue to achieve our 3% to 4% ongoing net new store growth target in the U.S. Moving to margin.
	Operator Thank you.
	The first mortgage loan portfolio increased $4.2 billion from the prior quarter driven by $19.3 billion of originations held for investment and the purchase of $1 billion of loans as a result of our exercising service cleanup calls to terminate over 20 pre-2008 securitizations.
	"And with that, operator, I’d ask you to please open up the call for Q&A."
	"John Cummings Thanks so much, Brian."
	Are you planning to spend more digital or more through traditional marketing channels?
	Operator Your next question comes from the line of Sara Senatore with AllianceBernstein.
	"Marty Flanagan Good question, Ken."
	We will update you on our progress of all potential new menu items as they move through our stage-gate process.
	Today in our older machines you have to pull a Doubleshot and then another single shot for any beverage that has three shots of espresso.
	The reason for that is Pascal launched top to bottom on the same day.
	Our entire executive leadership team is available during the Q&A session.
	"Lastly, as a result of our decision to invest in our Detroit-Hamtramck plant, we will incur operating costs that were outside the scope of our original transformation plan."
	Thank you.
	"So in a traditional store that might gum up throughput, but if you're doing Chipotlanes where you've got a greater mix of order ahead, obviously that seems to tie in better in that type of a store."
	Operator Your next question comes from the line of Matthew DiFrisco with Guggenheim Securities.
	"I'm more optimistic today than I was a year ago that we can deliver it, and I'm confident that in 2020 and in 2021 we'll see meaningfully better performance for GE as a whole."
	We have made significant progress on our transformational cost savings initiative with $2.4 billion achieved since 2018.
	"Beverage attach, beverage mix and pricing contributed evenly to the 3% growth in the average ticket for the quarter."
	And you'll see all this at our – all this amazing innovation and all this amazing customer success at Dreamforce which this year will be November 19th in San Francisco.
	"That's out, and I don't think there is that much more on the loan side."
	"Jack Hartung Yes, so look, the main driver is, we were not willing to compromise on our Food With Integrity principles on the supply over this program."
	And are there any tweaks that you need to make to the five-year plan that you provided last year?
	"Obviously Nitro is relatively new across the system, but about how you feel about that beverage pipeline looking ahead?"
	"Should we start see this, the legal reserve estimates start to trend down?"
	Gregory Frankfurt Helpful perspective.
	"Sales were $1.4 billion in the quarter, an increase of 14.6% from last year."
	The increase from the second quarter was driven by continued retail deposit campaign pricing for new deposits so that we begun lower promotional rates in terms in response to market conditions.
	And we’ll share additional details about the Capital Markets Day in the near future.
	"This is at the center of who we are as a company, and will remain a guiding light as we go forward."
	We haven't really talked about churn.
	Operator Thank you.
	How do you think about those lesser enduring brands that are – that can come and go?
	"And then, I think it's been three years of decline in top line for that business."
	"Good morning, everybody."
	We've got now additional capacity with really great economics associated with that additional capacity.
	"Is that second make line, for example, fully staffed and ready to go?"
	That's a two-year sales comp of 10% for Q4 a sequential improvement over our very strong results in Q3 and our best performance in the U.S. in over two years.
	"So, feel very confident about our position in China and the work that the team is doing there."
	We don't intend to do any more forwards at this stage.
	"And so, whoever the competition is, be it above or be it below, we're prepared for it."
	"On the solutions front, it's been one of the largest investments I think we've made as an organization."
	"So, the 5.5 comprises of the lost profit and the working capital unwind."
	"I will begin by reminding you that certain statements and projections made in this presentation about our future business and financial results constitute forward-looking statements, including projections about comparable restaurant sales growth, new store openings, our effective tax rate and expected G&A expenses."
	They are both great executives.
	"And so, and yet, if you do spot checks all around the world, they’re sold out almost everywhere."
	And our next question comes from John Kernan with Cowen.
	"Compared to prior year, continuing operations net income was favorable by $104 million, driven primarily by lower impairments and lower excess interest cost, partially offset by lower gains."
	"It's a great company, a set of great products."
	Please go ahead.
	So it's not as different as – it is different.
	We do think there's opportunity for us to invest more and we do plan to invest more to continue to grow and make our team more effective.
	"So Brennan I think just to put some context in terms of the SMA business generally, we're currently ranked 36 in the industry."
	And so we are starting to see that in very – the areas that we've talked about on this call.
	How does that reverse into 4Q?
	"We have made DGX SuperPOD available commercially to customers, essentially providing them with the turnkey supercomputer that they can assemble in weeks rather than months."
	What do you view as sort of core competencies that need to start by global leadership versus providing regional leadership with the flexibility to make the changes or run the business in a way that they see as most appropriate on the ground in that market?
	Loren Starr Yes.
	"With our Customer 360 vision with amazing Einstein innovations, the millions of Trailblazers innovating on our platform, Salesforce is incredibly well-positioned to help companies transform their customers."
	"Andrew Charles Thanks, guys."
	"Now I'm very proud of the progress the team has made against our three focused initiatives to accelerate growth in our U.S. business, enhancing the in-store experience, delivering relevant beverage innovation, and driving digital relationships."
	"So, we are seeing a vital environment and we’re also seeing a lot of pricing pressures."
	Moving to cash.
	And so that phase of growth of AI is the phase that we’re about to enter into.
	Your line is open.
	But is this a sort of program that you think would be compelling?
	They continue and that's something that Scott and his team and Larry have really been deep diving and focused on how that execution path really shifts up.
	"Additionally, compared to 2018, new store openings are more heavily weighted toward the fourth quarter."
	"So, we believe that our continued growth with the industries is important for us for the long term to expand the use of AI and we are just really pleased with what we are seeing in that growth this quarter."
	And how do you think those will play out in fiscal 2020?
	We also in receivables had a $2.4 billion headwind year-to-date in working capital consumption for receivables.
	"As anticipated all year, more timely delivery should serve as an incremental benefit to Q4 as we begin to ship product for spring floorsets."
	"Were you on the timeline of all of this, and actually overarching why this even is coming up now?"
	Mark Murphy Yes.
	"Overall, our third quarter results reflect one more quarter's worth of progress in our multi-year transformation of GE."
	Consistent with past quarters delivery remained a key driver of our digital growth given enhanced capabilities on our app and website as well as our expanded availability from more than 97% of our restaurants.
	There are more opportunities for us to sort of generate more synergies.
	"But right now we think 3% about the right level, right now we think we’re getting a great return."
	Our market share growth reflects the benefit of the transformational changes we have made in the business including process improvements that have resulted in faster credit decision response times.
	"We already saw that the opportunity to stay more than $475 million by the time of the transaction closing, we only had a clear line of sight, regarding the $475 million in savings."
	And finally EPS.
	"And then just a follow-up on Asia, outside of money markets, I guess what products are selling in that region?"
	Thanks.
	So we think that is largely sort of status quo.
	There are a couple of smaller puts and takes too.
	"His demonstrative, transparent style of leadership, centered around a clear strategic vision, unparalleled discipline, and an outright passion for our brand positions us smartly to reach our goal of making Under Armour the best athletic brand in the world."
	"So, we'll utilize both of those depending on the plan and the situation at that plant."
	"I will be highlighting most of the balance sheet drivers on page five throughout the call, so we will turn to page six."
	And our next question will come from the line of Walter Pritchard with Citigroup.
	Mortgage originations increased $5 billion from the second quarter due to higher refi volumes from lower interest rates with refis increasing to 40% of originations in the third quarter.
	Some make better capital allocation and are able to produce different returns on investment.
	"With respect to timing, what that refers to specifically are the ongoing conversations and discussions that we're having in Europe with the various constituencies involved in Power."
	"In Japan, we expanded with Hitachi and Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance."
	And I don't think that's changed at all.
	"And then also related to free cash, with the working capital unwind in the fourth quarter, how much do we expect to recover into 2020?"
	"All in, our ecosystem of developers is now 1.4 million strong."
	"Joseph Spak Okay, and then I know that you said recovery a volume next year is dependent on the market and as you noted, you're running all out on the trucks."
	"I actually had 2 as well, one quick one for Colette and one for Jensen."
	Thanks.
	Thank you.
	"And then John, why don't you do the same on China?"
	We received $1.6 billion of cash net of taxes and fees related to the Wabtec exit and $3 billion from Baker Hughes.
	"So, overall, I think it's somewhat last but I think you've got to look at the whole vehicle, not just the propulsion system."
	"We’ve added the ability to pin lists directly to your home timeline, enabling a fast switch between your home timeline and list of accounts you want to keep on - keep up with, but don't directly follow."
	"And having those executives, having that talent in place who are passionate about customer success and driving solutions really makes us I think a very, very unique company and that's why you see the success."
	Can you just comment on where you expect that to fall for the full-year 2019?
	"While we're managing the portfolio renewal, we're still on track to deliver 20% segment margins this year."
	Thanks.
	"That has a negative impact to revenue, because it’s one less input you’ve got, when you are figuring out which ads to show people."
	This was the first time we had both year-over-year and linked quarter growth in average loans in nearly three years.
	Youssef Squali Okay.
	"Some of that is timing-related, some of that it's just where those businesses that hit again in the energy transition."
	"Thanks so much, guys."
	"At the end of Q4, active members reached 10 million, up 45% over the prior year."
	"So, when I joined Under Armour in the summer of 2017, the one thing that struck me was a companywide relentless pursuit of innovation and attention to detail and the outright grit that goes into making all athletes better."
	"On page 20, we provide our community banking metrics."
	Jay Sole Great.
	My question is on the Americas traffic strength you've seen; it seems like you've picked up some momentum here even as you look at relative to the last quarter you're cycling a tougher comparison.
	And just beyond the comp performance we talk a lot about the acceleration of the store footprint and we had record new stores opened in the quarter.
	"So when you think about the development acceleration for next year, is there anything in there for international growth and if not, when and how do you leverage that international opportunity?"
	"All-in-all, we're encouraged by our progress in this reset year."
	Just look at some of the daily milestones our customers have helped us achieve with our Customer 360 platform.
	But we're well prepared for it.
	This effort tested the upper limits of investment potential to determine where the future payback could be greatest in terms of incremental sales.
	"I think it's been a couple of years back, you gave a framework around cost to serve on Dreamforce Analyst Day."
	"Restaurant level margins of 20.8% expanded 210 basis points over last year and earnings per share adjusted for unusual items was $3.82, a 77% year-over-year growth."
	"Looking ahead, while we are taking steps to remediate the product issues we described, we expect them to continue to weigh on the overall performance of our ads business in the near term."
	"So, I think a combination of the work that we're doing in wholesale, the addition of a better work we're doing in our full price stores in North America, in combination with moving on to a new e-com platform and new e-com site next year that's going to greatly enhance our ability to service the customer and layering on top of that the additional marketing that we plan to do."
	"And finally, given the continuing improvements in efficiencies we are experiencing within our supply chain, we now expect end-of-year inventory to be down at a low double-digit rate."
	I would also just add that our partners absolutely love these machines and it gives them much more visibility to the customer due to the lower profile of the machine itself being able to interact with customers and engage with them.
	"Outside a few hyperscalers, we’re seeing broad-based growth in data centers."
	"A lot of things go into that, of course, and we don't manage to them."
	"With regard to the issues raised in the Fed consent order, the feedback that we are getting from the Fed on a constant basis is enabling us to continue to make progress in terms of responding to their expectations."
	"So when you add it all up, our total revenue growth of 6% to 8% for fiscal 2020 is expected to translate into non-GAAP operating income growth of 8% to 10% consistent with our ongoing growth model."
	Thanks.
	And then maybe just you could just update us on GTR.
	"And then when you announced the deal, you kind of announced an expectation of, I think 2 basis points of revenue yield deterioration from breakage."
	"Clicking into the positive factors, we realized approximately 90 basis points of channel mix benefits, primarily due to a lower mix of sale to the off-price channel; 80 basis points from continued supply chain initiatives related to favorable product costs and lower airfreight; and 40 basis points related to prior-year impact from restructuring efforts."
	We have reconciled those to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our shareholder letter.
	"Lastly, regarding our pending acquisition of Mellanox, we have received regulatory approval in the U.S. and are engaged with regulators in Europe and China."
	"Loren Starr And I think the key thing for where we're at within solutions, which is kind of a broad area, we feel quite confident that the majority of the investments that we've made within solutions has already been made."
	This brings me to the evergreen topic of operational excellence.
	This is Patrik.
	"So with that, Steve?"
	"As far as Click Software and I'll let Mark talk about Tableau in a second, but as far as Click Software, we're very, very excited about the Click Software acquisition."
	"Marc Benioff Well, thanks Heather and I'll let Mark directly addressed the issues of guidance."
	Thanks.
	This fee was $94 million in the third quarter and was recognized in other non-interest income.
	A reconciliation to GAAP measures can be found via the link included on the Presentation page within the Investor Relations section of our website.
	Your line is open.
	Our Americas segment delivered 9% revenue growth in Q4 driven by comp sales growth of 6% and net new store growth of 3% over the past 12 months.
	Sequential growth also benefited from the production ramp of the two new models of Nintendo Switch gaming console.
	We announced several 6 games in the last couple of months.
	"Larry, I'm going to - I know other people will ask different questions but you spent a lot of time talking about renewables."
	"When you look at progress, we are seeing some mixing in progress between renewables and Power."
	We will.
	Operator And your next question comes from the line of Toshiya Hari with Goldman Sachs.
	There is no intention for us to invest through that number.
	"And listen, on their go-to-market side, we made a conscious decision over the last few years to really focus on three things."
	The second is continued strength in aviation services and the aftermarket there.
	"So, we know that we're not expecting perfection at the first time."
	Thank you so much.
	"And with respect to quarterly cash flows, we expect to make a tax payment of approximately $1 billion related to the Nestlé transaction in early Q2."
	Heath.
	Michael Cyprys Great.
	Any more color on what's driving that?
	Services is an area where I think we see opportunity as well.
	"At that point, we'll evaluate the business and look for the next round of cost savings that we can drive into the business and commit to from an improving shareholder value perspective."
	And… Marty Flanagan Yes.
	"John McDonald Okay, and guys, one more follow-up on the expenses."
	"The reason why x86s and CPUs are so popular is because they solve the great challenge of software developers: how to program a computer and how to program a computer and how to compile for that computer is a paramount concern to computer science, and it’s an area of tremendous research."
	Commercial loans were stable linked quarter as growth in C&I loans and leased financing was largely offset by declines in commercial real estate loans.
	"And you obviously it’s very topical in the UK, yes, I can’t speak for win, but what I will say, one of the most fundamental things that we did, strategically was purchasing Intelliflo."
	And then are there any puts and takes in that number?
	"This quarter, digital sales grew 88% year-over-year to $257 million and represented 18.3% of sales during the seasonally slower summer quarter for digital."
	"And finally, we expect our licensing business to be up in Q4 due to contractual royalty minimums, in addition to a settlement related to one of our North American partners."
	It's difficult to add over time and travel overtime.
	"And a lot of that comes on the back of the stable foundation, the hard work to make sure that we're really doing the work that needs to happen in terms of driving the business the right way."
	Continuing EPS was negative $0.15 and adjusted EPS was positive $0.15.
	You can’t do that with language and conversational AI.
	And I'm wondering you are talking about seeing really good underlying margin progression in the business ex-acquisition.
	That’s what gives us the comfort that the issues that we saw in July and August were more pronounced seasonality than we had anticipated.
	Dave?
	"While this slightly revises are year-end cost savings target to $4 billion to $4.5 billion, we will work to find every opportunity to maximize the cost savings potential."
	Notebook gaming is one of the fastest-growing segments of the gaming platform world.
	"Operator Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call."
	And as previously discussed we plan to update these targets factoring in recent acquisitions during our annual Analyst Day at Dreamforce in November.
	"At this time, we are encouraged by the ticket that we're seeing with this customer and their attraction to things like Happy Hour and also to the time of day."
	That's a great way to say it.
	And you mentioned in the letter that the US had recovered in September.
	Do you expect to do any more of these over the next call or year or so?
	"Pat Grismer And then Sharon with respect to your question on margin, what I first want to clarify is that we are expecting modest margin improvement across each one of our segments in fiscal 2020."
	Moving on to our International segment which delivered revenue growth of 6% on a reported basis in Q4.
	Expect lists creation to get more powerful capabilities over time.
	Operator?
	So we think this is much bigger than just the product.
	"We’ve done a lot of work this year and complexity optimization, and we’re driving that in from a design for manufacture ability perspective into how we design vehicles."
	"Sara Senatore A question about margins if I could, which is just about the fact that it’s been a little bit volatile this year, but in the end, very good margin expansion and maybe for the full year, EBIT margin on a recurring basis, maybe as much as high 100 to 200 basis points something in that range."
	"Vivek Juneja Okay, thanks."
	Our momentum in financial services continues.
	Steve Tusa Just on the corporate and related to Aviation.
	Operator And your next question comes from the line of Harlan Sur with JPMorgan.
	Maybe just can you outline what types of things are being done over the next couple quarters?
	"The Union Pacific Railroad system, one of the world's largest transportation companies chose Salesforce as its unified CRM platform to deliver faster, more proactive service."
	"You heard me mentioned that we're at about 40% refis right now in our own production, and our pipeline is this big coming out of the third quarter as it was going in."
	Our next question comes from Mike Carrier with Bank of America.
	"We’re trying to get as many end-caps with Chipotlanes as possible, that’s why we’ve been able to pretty quickly pivot so that we can have more than half of our portfolio."
	"With great intentionality, we've invested in our partners, in technology and in our stores to drive long-term growth."
	And a certain levels of supplement unemployment benefits to go with that and that just not change based on this contract which is primarily the driver the maintaining the downturn assumption of where they are.
	"At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call."
	David Bergman Thank you.
	"It's just the ability for us to think like that in that capacity, I think, is one of the aspects we'd be unlocking."
	Those three things are what's driving an all-time high in customer connection scores.
	David Bergman Yeah.
	"With me on the call today is Marc Benioff, Chairman and co-CEO; Keith Block, co-CEO; Mark Hawkins, President and CFO; Bret Taylor, President and Chief Product Officer and Amy Weaver, President of Legal & Corporate Affairs."
	So Steve when we talk about the spare engines in the quarter specific as it relates to spares to GECAS the corporate elimination was just under $100 million this quarter and we are seeing spare engine shipments higher in the quarter about half of that now back on Aviation about half of that relates to LEAP.
	And we are in the middle of the launches for the year.
	"Moving forward, our efforts to create greater efficiency, agility and leveraging our cost structure remains a key priority and focus for our company."
	"And then separately on the fee side, the equity investment gains saw a pretty good jump in the quarter, if you could just give us a little bit of color on what drove that and if you can give us a little thoughts in your outlook there?"
	"Footwear revenue was down 12% to $251 million, driven by the factors Patrik previously discussed."
	We have all these capabilities and they're accessible to everyone on our platform in a low-code way.
	"Andrew Kaplowitz Larry, intra-quarter you had said that you were watching Healthcare in China and potential impacts there of the trade war."
	Thank you.
	But it's premature to revise the ongoing long-term guidance that we provided at our 2018 Investor Day.
	So could you just deconstruct that a little bit?
	"Operator Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes our question-and-answer session."
	"At Aviation and Healthcare, we see continued strength in both franchises, yet we're intensely focused on running them even better."
	"Net of these turning items, the EPS during the quarter was lowered by approximately $0.52, and the adjusted automotive free cash flow was lower by approximately $400 million due to the strike."
	Whereas photo tagging and photo enhancement is something that you could put off-line and you could do that while you have excess capacity when it’s off of the most busy time of the day.
	"And is it still the case that when we think about potential return to peak volumes, we should think about restaurant level margins that are maybe below what they would have been at previous peaks?"
	We're seeing good success in delivery.
	Your line is open.
	Let's start with revenue.
	You in the past have given us loans to non-depository financials outstanding.
	"And as you guys know, we weren’t able to do that for Turing."
	"When we think about uses of cash, we think about being able to run the business through any environment."
	Good morning.
	"A - Brian Niccol Okay, thank you."
	Mary Barra Yes.
	"Operating profit of $974 million was up 13% reported with segment margins of 19.8%, up 150 basis points reported and 90 basis points organically."
	And our next question will come from the line of Kirk Materne with Evercore ISI.
	Our comp of 11% was driven by an acceleration in transactions as nearly 7.5% of the comp came from greater guests visit.
	We have a unique brand and I love the passion and determination that I see during my restaurant visits as our crew members constantly strive to be better today than they were yesterday.
	"So this is a question I love to answer because the thing that's been great about the program to-date is it's definitely got bigger representation of new and light/medium users, and what we're seeing is when we do communicate with them with certain incentives, we see behavioral changes that are very positive and so we're seeing all the things you would want to see in a rewards program from a standpoint of the composition of those that are in the rewards program and then the behaviors associated with those that are within the program."
	"As a reminder, the primary negative impact in the quarter was driven by lower sales to the off-price channel relative to last year."
	Are there cost savings that are coming through?
	"And so, these models are really, really large."
	"So, we're going to keep driving their forwarding and continue to close that gap."
	"Unfortunately, we had some missteps and bugs in our map ads, admits greater than expected seasonality in July and August."
	But September was an especially strong month for performance within the Henley equity side and so we're travelling definitely in the right direction if you will.
	"I mean, I think if you look at how the firm has – it’s a bonus pools, it’s really the largest component of it."
	"Because of additional planned investments in U.S. manufacturing, we will revise our year-end 2020 cost savings started to arrange between $4 billion and $4.5 billion."
	Again our primary focus is to support Boeing and our carrier customers with respect to what they return to service.
	And maybe I'll talk about it in the context of our guide.
	Ned Segal Okay.
	I will also mention that the work that we continue to do to engage our customers from a digital perspective has also been helpful particularly when we introduced multitier redemption.
	Bret Taylor Yes.
	Sales of NVIDIA GPUs for use in the cloud were solid.
	"And so, we’re the number of autonomous vehicle projects is quite large around the world as you can imagine."
	I will now turn the call over to Mary Barra.
	So we're super excited about these adds and challenges and important strategy for the future.
	Just anything you can share with us today on what some of those stories that we can be expecting.
	I thought let me just start with a question that either if you could respond to.
	"If you’ll recall, we have been projecting to achieve run rate net expense synergies of $475 million by the end of the first quarter of 2021."
	And having a programmable architecture like CUDA and yet optimized for AI like Tensor Cores that we’ve created is really the ideal architecture.
	"We shipped 714 commercial engines this quarter, the same as the third quarter of 2018."
	"And if not why, and then, I'll have a couple follow-ups."
	Just two questions for me.
	Third-quarter operating income was $139 million.
	"It is incredibly strategic to their operations and differentiates them, and that's why as of Q2, Field Service Lightning is growing at nearly 100% year-over-year."
	Jamie Miller Yeah.
	"So what about other potential uses for your healthy balance sheet like M&A, there have been no material acquisition since 2015 and/or stock purchases."
	"Or maybe another way to think about is where you losing traction, where you’re gaining traction?"
	Good afternoon.
	And Click Software which is modestly diluted along with the associated transaction cost.
	Moving on to the next key growth driver retail store development.
	"We have 30.2 million digital active customers in the third quarter up 4% from a year ago, including 7% growth in mobile active customers."
	"When you add up all of those product launches, when you add up all of those events across different types of topics, across geographies, you end up with what's happening on Twitter every day that our opportunities for advertisers to connect with their customers on the service."
	Next question please.
	Thank you all for joining.
	"Some of that is the service level improvements that we mentioned and being able to ship more of that spring product earlier in Q4 than previous Q4 in 2018, but also some of the DTC improvements to a degree."
	"In the quarter, revenue was up 4% and included continued growth in our DTC channel from both new door openings and e-commerce."
	"And then secondly, could you just give a little more insight internally kind of the degree of resources being applied and any sense of distraction from any of the requests involved?"
	"We are sensing with Brexit in particular, certainly end game coming here – like to starting to see just recently the performance is starting to pick up very strongly, which is a very good sign."
	"In addition to taking appropriate cost actions, we are improving our product mix."
	Thank you so much.
	Jen-Hsun Huang Our hyperscale data center with a few customers don’t give us very much – we don’t get very much visibility from a handful of customers in hyperscale.
	"As it relates to the pension lump sum offering in freeze, we may realized $1 billion to $3 billion of non-cash pension deficit reduction depending on the lump sum's participating population and the take-up rate."
	"Non-accrual loans were 58 basis points of total loans, their lowest level in over 10 years."
	Just where is the market.
	"This reflects growing adoption of next-generation AI cockpit solutions and autonomous vehicle development projects, including one particularly sizable development services transaction that was recognized in the quarter."
	And those numbers just give you a sense for the impact and how from one election.
	"Restaurant level margins of 20.8%, which is 210 basis points higher than last year."
	That has been dis-synergy.
	Operator Thank you.
	"Thanks, Nicole."
	We have new leadership on the ground in China that is going.
	Let me highlight a few of the other linked quarter trends.
	And then is there any shift in capital priorities overall?
	"First, cleaner inventory positions and improving service levels around the world are enabling us to more efficiently meet our wholesale demand closer to need."
	Operator And our last question today will come from John Tower with Wells Fargo.
	"Today's discussion will be led by Kevin Johnson, President and CEO; and Pat Grismer, CFO."
	"And if we look at this beyond its a necessity as you're going to compete and win with institutions, thought leadership is an another area that becomes very, very important in these conversations because what we're seeing with appliances, they're wanting to work with us very deeply and very broadly and so its effectively opening up the organization to whatever set of capabilities that we have and so it's been material and it's been real."
	So hopefully that gives you the sense for 2019.
	"And we’ll learn more about how we staff the Chipotlanes and how we can really get as much as efficiency that we know is possible, out of moving more of the sales towards that second make line."
	Thank you.
	Adjusted continuing operations generated earnings of $123 million in the quarter.
	"With 7 million loyalty members now, can you talk a little bit about the composition of the customer."
	Patrik Frisk Thank you.
	"In the age of YouTube, creators and freelancers are rapidly growing population, but they have traditionally not had access to professional-grade workstations through online and retail channels."
	"And then obviously, down the road, we’ll figure out how we pivot outside the U.S.  Nicole Miller Thank you."
	"Jack Dorsey Thanks, Brian."
	I'm thinking about Patrik and the ability that he's brought to our team and looking and saying that he can be a better CEO at this point in time than I could be.
	"So, in addition to those labor hours, we also invested in store-level equipment, as Roz mentioned, to support new product platforms like Nitro Cold Brew and to improve our operating efficiency."
	Brian Niccol Yes.
	"I mean a great example just tying back to the last call is Demandware, one of those luxury retailers is based in Paris."
	"And then just specifically like as we think about, you know, exiting fourth quarter at net interest income, you're obviously going to be caring or absorbing higher than normal bond premium amortization."
	So that's a great example of marrying innovation organically and inorganically.
	I am in Geneva at the World Economic Forum headquarters where I'm attending our annual Board of Trustees meeting and also our international business committee of our top 200 CEOs in the world.
	So as you go forward there you may want to think about some kind of normalization there.
	"We -- beverage innovation continued, but we also promoted beverages pretty heavily in the quarter."
	Your line is open.
	We’re well position because we’ve renewed all those architectures and we’ve invested in very efficient instead of combustion engine technology that will continue to improve.
	"And so you don’t want to be paying for that line rate the whole time, and maybe the data is of great confidentiality or privacy."
	This is actually Ryan Bailey on behalf of Alex.
	I wonder if you could talk about the strength in the automotive business.
	"From a product perspective, with performance innovations like UA HOVR, Rush, and Recover, we know that when our product delivers SPF – that's Under Armour’s style, performance, and fit – we win with athletes."
	"For the fiscal year, Starbucks delivered record results in both total net revenues and non-GAAP EPS."
	Operator Thank you.
	We now cover 80% of our store base.
	"And so, although the cars will take several years to go into production, we’re seeing a lot of interest in working with us to develop self-driving cars using our development systems and entering into development projects."
	So those are upsides.
	"We have the Olympics coming up in 2020 and we continue to work hard to bring out an improved version of MAP, although the impact will be felt gradually."
	These results demonstrate our potential to outperform our long-term model.
	I appreciate it.
	"In terms of the $501 million, that number is net of investments."
	Question relates to China.
	"Gas Power services revenues were down 14% with contractual services down due to outage volume and mix, transactional revenues down on lower F-class outages and upgrades, which were down significantly driven by tough comps and deal timing of convertible upgrade volume."
	My first question is on data center.
	"But make no mistake, we still have work to do."
	"In a different lean event recently at our MR production facility in Florence, South Carolina, teams identified $50 million of potential savings in just four days."
	Chris McNally And then if we could talk about the without giving numbers like when we think about the reversal at some time in the first half.
	"Across every industry, every geography, they are turning to Salesforce as their trust advisor into our Customer 360 platform as the foundation and catalyst of their growth."
	"I think you guys talked about it being a double-digit percentage contributor, curious what you saw from inference in the quarter."
	These spots are a continuation of our Behind the Foil campaign that launched earlier this year and highlight real Chipotle team members and providing an inside look at the real fresh food and skill for preparation that happens in Chipotle kitchens every day.
	"Betsy Graseck Okay, thanks."
	"And that all brings it down to how do we continue to work closely with our customers, but accrete margin over time."
	Thank you so much.
	"Yeah, that is a balance as you go through the turnaround, if you like, or the transformation."
	"Now, I would like to take a moment to provide color on a few of the main drivers of our fourth quarter revenue growth expectations."
	Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures may be found at the end of our earnings presentation.
	"And so, that may take months or even quarters for the -- in the moneyness of the outstanding stock of mortgages, you know, agency mortgages to work their way through the system, but there is a whole lot more people who are in the money for refi today than a few quarters ago."
	If and when we do something we'll have that discussion internally before we have it publicly.
	"It's just difficult to predict now at this point, what that would look like."
	"Net interest income was down 8% in the third quarter and down 4% in the first nine months of 2019, compared with the same periods a year ago."
	"Dan Levy And then just as a second question, one that's more existential and sort of touching on one of the prior questions."
	"Adam, I think it’s early to call it, I mean there is so much going on right now as you look at the volatility in China, look at where we’re still in the middle of where we’re trying to understand where the trades stocks are going to land and how that’s going to impact the overall economy."
	Kevin Johnson Thanks Jeffrey.
	I'll just add a few things here just to highlight that we're still seeing growth in our digital flywheel.
	"And the applications of AI, as you guys are watching yourself, are just spreading in every single industry."
	I know you maybe seeing also the tier -- the change to a tiered rewards program has it opened you up maybe to a broader demographic that maybe you're resonating better as a value and you're expanding the tent to include more people above maybe lower incomes than you had in the past?
	"I was wondering going back to Slide 9, if we're looking at that $2.9 billion number."
	"We’ll also take questions asked on Twitter, so please tweet us @TwitterIR using the #TWTR."
	We're trying to determine the veracity of what was said in the New York Times.
	"We booked a $0.09 after-tax charge related to our annual insurance premium deficiency test, largely driven by a significant decline in market interest rates."
	So that's number one big efficiency unlock.
	Larry Culp Yes.
	Marty Flanagan Yes.
	It's got an incredible development community.
	"And although we may see some puts and takes in the short term, there is no departure from our confidence in delivering on our long-term plan."
	Partially offsetting this decline was $127 million increase in net gains on mortgage loan originations and sales activities.
	That's something has been consistent with in the past several quarters as our depreciation caches up to our CapEx level and we've been seeing a secular increase every single year.
	"We had a great showing at SIGGRAPH, the computer graphics industry’s biggest annual conference held in Los Angeles."
	"Greg McGreevey Look, I think just highlight the year-to-date improvement that we’ve seen in our Henley business overall, especially on the equity side with a number of our assets, especially those that have had the most significant size in the top half of peers improving pretty dramatically from 2018 and 2017."
	"With the long-cycle nature of our business right, I think the installed base, the backlog, half the business in the -- half the revenue in the aftermarket, we don't have a tremendous amount of near and short-cycle exposure."
	"So the good news is with 11% comp and 7.5% transactions and really strong margins, we’re now going to be able to push on how we continue to expand our new units going forward."
	I'm incredibly excited about our acquisition with Tableau software which closed in August 1st and have provided revenue guidance for Tableau for Q3 and FY 2020.
	"Thank you for joining our call today where our Interim CEO and President, Allen Parker; and our CFO, John Shrewsberry will discuss third quarter results and answer your questions."
	And what we've seen in the second half and we've seen it third quarter we'll continue to see it in the fourth quarter is an acceleration of the LEAP-1B shipments in anticipation of the MAX return to service.
	"Turning to page 24, we continue to have strong credit results with our net charge-off rate declining to 27 basis points in the third quarter."
	We had record volume in the third quarter commensurate with the industry with September being particularly strong and the fourth highest month on record for the industry fueled by the rally and treasuries.
	On a trailing 12-month basis we're pleased to deliver free cash flow growth of 26%.
	Kevin Plank Yeah.
	What we'll do better on is telling you once we've accomplished something as opposed to what's coming that's not been received.
	It's a combination of both.
	"The guidance that we’re giving for the fourth quarter though it takes into account the strong comps as we start the quarter, but also that our strongest comp month last year was December, so going up against the tougher comparison in December."
	"And looking ahead, we plan to be in 50 global markets in the first half of 2020."
	And it's been fascinating meeting.
	Good morning.
	We have been fully cooperating with these inquiries for nearly two-and-a-half years.
	So could you maybe just elaborate on what you’re seeing in October so we have the right context for the rest of the quarter?
	"And then, secondly, I know you guys don't talk about weather's impact in 3Q, but it was like the warmest September, I think, [indiscernible]."
	Note that some of the statements we're making are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today.
	This was the eighth consecutive quarter of achieving at least 5% year-over-year growth in both debit and credit card purchase volume.
	We continue to evaluate actions in light of the pension deficit pressure to ensure that we reduced our net debt to less than $30 billion as planned while maintaining sound liquidity.
	"I mean is there a view yet that you have that, where that margin ought to be and how you get there?"
	I expect that ray tracing is going to drive a reinvigoration of gaming graphics.
	"Ned Segal Thanks, Jack."
	But the CEO of UniCredit is really betting the future of UniCredit around Customer 360 initiative and the experience for his customers that he wants and how he wants to transform that bank.
	"In the U.S., we posted comp sales growth of 6% in Q4 including comp transaction growth of 3%."
	But would it be fair to assume that some of these technical issues that are causing the headwinds are going to persist in to next year?
	"But in 2020, we do think that China will remain volatile."
	And I just kind of what – I guess or what are you or where you see potential other kind of avenues of growth in that region?
	"Relative to gross margin, we now expect improvement of approximately 90 basis points to 110 basis points compared to our prior expectation of 70 basis points to 90 basis points in improvement compared to 2018 adjusted gross margin due to ongoing supply chain initiatives, including more favorable product cost and lower airfreight, coupled with additional channel mix benefits from lower off-price sales."
	Allen Parker Sure.
	"In addition, we won Lighthouse account deals in important industries that are on the cusp of being transformed by AI."
	I think the thing that we are making progress on right now is in the area of gross margin.
	We see a huge opportunity adding electrification and that's why we’re investing and I think in among the leaders in the EV space.
	And I guess the question is how is your approach different today versus say two years ago and what might be most different as you look out over the next two to three years?
	"Secondly, MAP products -like what percentage of ad revenue would you think that they account for."
	Your line is now open.
	"Operator Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference."
	Krista Bessinger Great.
	"Patrik Frisk Hi, Erinn."
	And I can't wait for the future.
	There's a lot we can do from a lean perspective here.
	So I'm just curious on that dynamic.
	Thanks for taking my question.
	We're doing so much leverage from our technology investments to enable the experience that Keith talked about.
	"Clearly, over time you're going to see us remix this business more toward the digital that's why referenced the AI progress with the FDA around the critical care offering."
	That's helpful.
	"Within wholesale, our results were positively impacted by improved service levels and earlier-than-planned shipments related to Brexit."
	"A fair amount of it is international with distributor flow and that being more heavily weighted to Q2 and Q4, but then also, again, those service levels improvements, when you think about the product that we would be shipping in late June, early July and the product we ship in late December versus early January, those are the two phases where improving service levels can be most impactful in a good way."
	And we're going to continue to focus on accelerating our store growth.
	Operator Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Brinkman of JP Morgan.
	"If I really look at the Gas Power orders, we year-to-date have booked 12.8 gigawatts versus 7.2 gigawatts in the third quarter year-to-date 2018, so really pretty healthy for the year this year already."
	John Tower Thank you.
	Consumer and small business banking deposits increased $11.9 billion from the second quarter driven by higher retail banking deposits including growth in high yield savings and CDs.
	"I had two as well, one for Jensen and the other for Colette."
	And how we've increased stakeholder returns.
	And maybe just how would you characterize the sentiment of clients within the UK?
	"Thanks, Eric."
	[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
	"I’m actually headed there, to see some of our partners this weekend."
	So we're excited about that.
	Just a question on going back to the four point headwind in the fourth quarter.
	"Mary Barra Yes, yes, I think we -- given I said more broadly is that we really believe the inclinatory elements of the contracts or the economics that we can offset with productivity and there is plans well established."
	Deane Dray Thank you.
	This was primarily driven by lower interest rates which resulted in a lower discount rate and adversely impacted our margin by $1.3 billion and partially offset by projected premium rate increases of $300 million.
	Brian Niccol Yes.
	Thanks for taking my questions.
	"We're more focused on this digital education than ever and we realize to achieve this vision of a new economy that we all want, we have to deliver this next-generation vision of education as well."
	It’s a $100 trillion industry.
	Dhivya Suryadevara Are you talking about the reversal of working capital or the recovery of profits or both?
	"As you may know Field Service is incredibly strategic to a number of industries such as utilities, telecommunications, equipment manufacturers and we have a very strong product in Field Service Lightning."
	"I'll throw this question out up for grabs and it's really just to dig in a little bit deeper on Service Cloud with the re-acceleration this quarter, just wondering if you could help unpack that a little bit."
	"To provide a little more color there, our Japanese licensee is currently working to address a number of strategic and operational challenges and building out and beginning to execute against the plan."
	"Is that the right run rate, I guess as we should be thinking about the expense base entering 2020?"
	"Dhivya Suryadevara Thanks, Mary, and good morning everybody."
	"Really repositioning our business, restructuring, reorganizing, reshadowing the processes, so that we can be clear and make sure that there's not double work happening as we just get as efficiently and lean as possible."
	And then the last year has been a tough one with the slowdown in cloud CapEx and so forth.
	So let's say on the what Loren was pointed out about the deal because I think it's actually quite critical.
	Operator The next question will be from John Glass of Morgan Stanley.
	"Therefore, on a GAAP basis, gross margin in 2019 should be up approximately 130 basis points to 150 basis points."
	"So this is really just one of these temporary things, whereas we take advantage of an opportunity with the Chipotlane, which really I think it is a terrific outcome because it will drive our digital results as well as drive the total business, which hopefully as we’ve seen to date will result in even better returns going forward as we build out the new units."
	"Our plan is those that come in with Carne Asada, they get a great Chipotle experience that is going to result in them wanting to come back even with Carne Asada is not on the menu."
	"Following management’s prepared remarks, we will host a question-and-answer session and our instructions will follow at that time."
	I would like to provide some additional perspective on this guidance.
	"With that, we will now open the call for questions."
	"And so, we're very excited about that."
	These issues were in our control and we will work to do better.
	We've talked about the ability for us to start playing offense.
	Was there anything unusual there?
	It’s double digits.
	"Durga Doraisamy Good afternoon, everyone and thank you for joining us today to discuss our fourth quarter and fiscal year 2019 results."
	"And then on carne asada, any quantification around what it did to COGS either in the September quarter or what we should expect in the fourth quarter?"
	Gross corporate costs continued to decrease as people processes and accountability are further pushed down to the segments.
	It seems like you had some broadening out of the customer spending this quarter.
	"And – but more importantly, the two dynamics that I think are near term and that’s going to drive growth, number one is interactive conversational AI, interactive conversational AI inference."
	"From a gaming perspective, the overall Switch or the overall console business definitely is a seasonal business."
	Please go ahead.
	And sometimes things move from one format to another and other times advertisers pause and wait for things to change before they come back or they take their campaign elsewhere.
	"And then, I guess, the second question is a bigger one."
	"Dhivya Suryadevara Yes, I would say that your EBIT impact seems to be on the low end maybe you're talking about the net income impact so from an EBIT prospective set up for, you going to talk about growth number there."
	Transactions grew across all dayparts for the second consecutive quarter and beverage led our comp growth for a fifth consecutive quarter driving five points of comp sales growth with food contributing the remaining point.
	"Obviously, where I started this conversation is, I'm tremendously proud of the Chipotle team, all of our team members in the field."
	"And on closing, I'd like to thank our employees, our partners and our customers around the world for their support and of course our company's great execution, so thanks to everybody."
	"SG&A expense increased 4% to $551 million, which was better than expected due to our continued cost management efforts as well as unrealized marketing spend that will be utilized in the fourth quarter, coupled with lower-than-planned depreciation from timing of store openings and capital expenditures."
	This is Jared Orr on for John.
	"Thanks, Doug."
	"And my expectation is that it’s going to grow a lot more, and let me explain to you why."
	"In fact, we're the beginning of an enormous wave of digital transformation, I'm certainly seeing that here in Geneva."
	"As we've discussed on previous calls, we do look at this as a multiyear growth story that people's relationships in the U.S. provides this capabilities to take around the world, while also creative skills for organization."
	So we’re still in the phase of testing and experimenting a lot with interest in topics.
	"This is the one part of the business that I think is toughest for us to model, so any color would be very helpful."
	Question for Mark Hawkins or for Keith Block.
	"Because of this work, we are much better equipped to identify and fix issues we come across today than we were just 1 to 2 years ago."
	"We also delivered adjusted Industrial operating margin expansion of 130 basis points, driven by Healthcare and better controls at Power relative to last year."
	"But listen, the team’s been doing a lot of great work and we think that we’ll see more savings in 2020."
	"Jack Hartung You know, we're studying that right now."
	"And good morning, everyone."
	These items are excluded from our non-GAAP results.
	"GAAP and non-GAAP tax rates are both expected to be 10%, plus or minus 1%, excluding discrete items."
	"So these are opportunities that are at best for us, but events are - they continue to be a driver when we think about ways that we’re adding people to the service."
	"So the question I have you maybe for Marc is because you're you think about these things is you know how do you see Salesforce participating in each of those three markets, because it sure seems to me that those three technologies are going to have to work closer with each other over time because they just feel like they're going to intersect and so how does Salesforce position itself for that kind of next wave of those three things kind of connecting with each other?"
	I think the path to positive is going to be a function of some other things that are – some within our control and some without of our control.
	"In the third quarter, we generated $35.5 billion in net revenues, $3 billion in EBIT adjusted 8.4% margin $1.72 an EPS diluted adjusted and $3.8 billion in adjusted automotive free cash flow."
	I think broadly just in terms of adoption and thinking about things like Customer 360 it seems like it's hitting a little bit of an inflection point and we just love your thoughts on that?
	"And then, also as Patrik mentioned, we finally normalized the Latin America business with that Brazil model change that we've been discussing."
	"Salesforce.com, inc. (NYSE:CRM) Q2 2020 Results Earnings Conference Call August 22, 2019 5:00 PM ET EPS of $0.66 beats by $0.19 Revenue of $4B (21.82% Y/Y) beats by $41.63M  Company Participants John Cummings - Senior Vice President, Investor Relations Marc Benioff - Chairman & Co-Chief Executive Officer Keith Block - Co-Chief Executive Officer Mark Hawkins - President & Chief Financial Officer Bret Taylor - President & Chief Product Officer Amy Weaver - President of Legal & Corporate Affairs Conference Call Participants Mark Murphy - JPMorgan Heather Bellini - Goldman Sachs."
	We think about and often challenge ourselves around the optimal use in terms of benefiting our shareholders.
	"This can enable mere human comprehension in real-time by chat box, intelligent personal assistants and search engines."
	We're flat year-to-date and we're expecting to grow in 2019 and we expect that to accelerate as go into the out-years.
	"It's too early to get a precise prediction, but it looks like beef generally to the extent that we can get the supply of food with integrity cuts that Brian mentioned, it looks like that should be pretty stable."
	Operator Your next question comes from the line of Itay Michaeli with Citi.
	Total revenue for the second quarter was $3.997 billion including $54 million of acquisition of Salesforce.org.
	"Because the letter has a lot of detail, we’ll keep our opening remarks brief and then dive right into your questions."
	Andrew Obin Yes.
	"And we're, the strength of the products that we put out are driving our market share gains this time."
	"And we expect it to continue to be EPS accretive on a cumulative basis, including the associated share repurchase benefit funded in Q1 of fiscal 2019 by $5 billion of after-tax proceeds from Nestlé."
	"Before we begin, I would like to direct your attention to the forward-looking statements on the first page of the chart set."
	"Discontinued operations generated a net loss of $18 million, which was unfavorable year-over-year by $58 million, primarily driven by a prior year investment security gain on sale and an indemnity reserve release."
	"And the thing that’s really exciting for us is beyond recommendations, beyond image enhancement, the area where we believe the most important application for AI is likely conversational AI."
	And it’s a percentage of PCBOI.
	"If you simply ask a chat bot a simple question, where is the closest pizza and you would – pizza shop, and you would like to have a conversation with this bot, it would have to do speech recognition, it has to understand what it is that you asked about, it has to look it up in a recommender based on the locations you’re at, maybe your preferences of styles of pizza and the price ranges that you’re interested and how far you’re willing to go, to go get it."
	"Orders and revenues were up double digits again, as we delivered approximately 1,400 turbines and repower kits in the quarter."
	"Availability of excess inventory for the off-price channel is lower than we anticipated, also the weaker expectations on DTC and also the foreign exchange rates."
	"As a result, while our long-term operating income margin target of 17% to 18% still includes a 100 basis point overhead efficiency improvement through fiscal 2021, it is now spread across G&A and store operating expenses."
	"But, ultimately, what we've been saying all along has been that we're going to drive this brand to a more premier positioning again and we're absolutely determined to do that."
	Erinn Murphy Great.
	So we're very optimistic about China.
	The underlying EPS and free cash flow guidance is consistent with the range given in January.
	"To your question on no warranty, we had a $700 million year-over-year unfavorable and that was primarily driven by the K2 warranty cost that Mary mentioned in her remarks as well as there was a onetime favorable item in 2018 of last year which does not repeat in 2019."
	"Mary Barra Thank you, I can’t wait for the world to be able to drive the CA because its’ an outstanding vehicle and the value, the performance is I think just set the new bar and then the affordability I think is something we’re really proud of and is very true to the Chevrolet brand."
	"I'd like to start today's call by touching on the announcement we made a couple weeks back that effective January 1, 2020, I will be transitioning to Under Armour's Executive Chairman and Brand Chief and Patrik Frisk will become our Chief Executive Officer."
	So that priority is still exists.
	Operator Your next question comes from the line of David Long with Raymond James.
	"And then you highlighted the dynamic between MAP pricing and video pricing, but if video becomes a bigger portion of the mix and people get more familiarity with it."
	"We believe some of that may get invested, some may drop to the bottom line."
	"Colette Kress So, to answer your question here, Stacy, on what we refer to when we’re discussing the broad-based growth is the substantial expansion that we have on the types of customers and the industries that we are now approaching."
	"Going back to the question of what’s next, we launched Chipotle Rewards in March and are just now beginning to leverage that platform."
	So you guys expect additions to new units to go now at the lower end of the 140 to 155.
	So we do anticipate that you think part of the recovery in the second half of November and into the December.
	But it does come at the expense of what would otherwise be much stronger margin expansion on the back of the consistent comp growth that we're expecting going forward.
	And I believe we have the best employees in the industry across the board.
	Please go ahead.
	All of this is consistent with our ongoing growth model.
	And it's in line with our expectation.
	"We repaid it largely or completely from a financing that we did last year to pre-fund this maturity, which is a little more than $1 billion."
	We do make tradeoffs between our organic growth and margin.
	And I could just be greedy here and squeeze in one other thing.
	That's just I think a conservative financial planning assumption we took on the last quarterly update.
	"So no, the plan is actually, I think the guidance that we shared is we’re going to be accelerating new units as we move into 2020."
	"And again, that was $45 million."
	"And I can't wait to celebrate this opening with our partners and customers, and we hope to see many of you there soon."
	"Overall, our liquidity position remains strong with $17 billion in Industrial cash and we continued to have access to $35 billion in bank lines."
	"But I would say that from overall margin standpoint, we’re pretty much right on track."
	"Adjusting for all these items, consolidated non-GAAP operating margin was up 40 basis points, reflecting the benefits of sales leverage and productivity improvements, partially offset by nontax reform-funded investments in our partners, technology, product innovation and stores."
	"So with the shift in the fourth quarter is the current forecast just based on what's rolled on and what's rolled off and the current body of work, but there's still a lot of it going on."
	"That strength was demonstrated by, among other things, increases in loan and deposit balances both from the second quarter and from a year ago, our highest branch customer experience scores in over three years, and continued growth in primary consumer checking customers."
	We repurchased $39 million of our stock at an average share price of $783 during the quarter.
	Take care.
	"Larry Culp I would just say, with respect to the strategic question around Power Portfolio, it's important to remember that when you hear us talk about driving a lean transformation of these businesses, better upfront discipline around which projects we take on, how we price them, how we framed risk, let alone how we execute and how we support them in the aftermarket."
	"With that, I'll hand the call over to Larry."
	"Dhivya Suryadevara I think there's definitely months where you see some competitive activity and then it normalizes and so on, but we're launching, we're going with our cadence."
	I'm looking at the papers around me here.
	"So what we're seeing institutionally is, I talked about lot going on a fixed income, lot going on a real estate."
	Thanks.
	"They're appropriately high, but we're committed to completing that work."
	"You can tell that my energy, of course, it fits within the dream and the vision that we have for product, but one of the best things we did is we implemented a go-to-market process."
	"As a reminder, we expect the lap of income tax rate favorability for fiscal 2019 will impact our quarter-to-quarter non-GAAP EPS growth in fiscal 2020 with Q1 being the lowest at flat to down slightly given a nine percentage point EPS growth headwind tied to last year's tax rate."
	Jamie Miller Hi.
	"Also at the conference, we announced that by next year’s end, we will make available to the ARM ecosystem NVIDIA’s full stack of AI and HPC software, which accelerates more than 600 HPC applications and all AI frameworks."
	Krista Bessinger Thank you.
	GAAP and non-GAAP OI&E are both expected to be income of approximately $25 million.
	"Kevin Johnson Pat, why don't I let you take that with Sara, and then we'll see if Roz and John need to add to it."
	So limited opportunity in retrofit but lots of opportunity going forward as we build new restaurants.
	"So when you say high-single-digit, that’s not what we actually added."
	"And the good thing about this, there isn't a massive change coming."
	"So, when you normalize for these temporary transition items in Channel Development and as well as for the ownership change in Thailand, we get back to a normalized total revenue growth rate of 7% to 9%."
	"Jack Dorsey So, Lloyd on on-boarding."
	"This is foundational for our improving job satisfaction, health and safety, quality and productivity, all of which will strengthen the future of this company and creates shareholder value."
	[Operator Instructions].
	And I think we have a lot of opportunities to tap into as we really optimize our complexity and we leverage reuse.
	And then as we get confidence around that we’ll bring into every surface area of the app and the surface.
	So we continue to believe we can grow head count 20% or more and that expenses will grow about 20% as we’ve talked about in the past.
	"Like we said, we’re going to take the opportunity to get any excellent that we can and that’s all we can comment on at this time."
	We have a tremendous history with acquisitions of complementing organic innovation and being able to make progress in that way.
	Any such statements should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements in our earnings release and risk factor discussions in our filings with the SEC including our last Annual Report on Form 10-K. Starbucks assumes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements or information.
	That said that was fundamentally offset by a number of the legacy issues that we referenced in the prepared remarks and the consolidation of the Alstom JVs.
	"RTX as you know is – first of all, RTX is doing great."
	"And I think your question is directed as the represented work force, we’re going to continue to work on productivity and we have opportunity there."
	Matt O'Connor Okay.
	But let me talk to you about inference.
	"So it seems like the NIM percent could bottom somewhere in the 250s, and I'm just trying to get a sense of is that like a reasonable NIM when I think about your mix, right, everyone's trying to compare you to both your bigger peers and your smaller and you don't have as much credit card as some, does that hurts you, also not as much trading book as some that should help you."
	"Residential held for sale mortgage loan originations totaled $38 billion in the third quarter and the production margin on these originations increased to 121 basis points with higher margins in both retail and correspondent channels, driven by capacity constraints."
	"So, I know you say that you have a broad-based growth except for a few hyperscalers."
	Thank you for participating.
	"And when you do these kind of turnarounds, it takes time because you have to actually work through the calendar."
	"So there's a lot of work to do here, Deane, in nuclear given the challenges there particularly in places like Japan."
	Larry talked about restructuring.
	So within the quarter two things happened.
	"And from the inside, I'm seeing the improvements I wanted to see when we started on this path a year ago, improvements that will yield long-term results for all of GE stakeholders."
	"So I was just hoping if you can kind of break it down for us in terms of overall volume growth mix dynamics, both between segments and within segments and also to the extent DRAM pricing is impacting that, any color on that will be helpful as well."
	Orders of $3.9 billion were down 30% reported and down 20% organically.
	"And more importantly, if you can talk about the outlook, both near term and long term, as it relates to inference, that’ll be helpful."
	"First one, I wanted to ask about, last quarter, you had mentioned weaning the consumer of some of the online promotions have been a little bit of a challenge and a drag on the business a little bit."
	"Progress payments were a usage of gas as expected, driven by timing of project execution and payment milestones primarily related to onshore wind and Gas Power projects."
	John Shrewsberry Let's see.
	Operator Thank you.
	We will speak about that in a couple of minutes.
	"The incremental margin is still at the high level of 50% to 65%, as assets and revenues grow."
	And it appears that you've got another $1 billion to $1.5 billion of savings for next year.
	"You don't deliver 7.5% transaction growth and an 11% comp unless you've got an organization that is all rolling together and I think the culture is tremendously strong, both in the support centers and in the restaurants, and I think what we've demonstrated with Carne Asada is we also now have a muscle where we can do new product innovation, as well as driving the digital system."
	"Micro G, Charged, HOVR and something we've just launched actually in a truly segmented manner, which is called Liquify."
	"First, the FX headwind of a total -- for total revenue that I mentioned earlier, represents approximately one percentage point of growth year-over-year, and that affected each of our clouds on a similar proportional basis."
	Operator Your next question comes from the line of Joe Moore with Morgan Stanley.
	And so we'll benefit a lot from that in fiscal year '20.
	"So we're going to continue to build a really strong pipeline, which we have for next year, and if the opportunity presents itself to go a little faster, obviously we'll."
	Good morning.
	"But again, the commonality is there that, [indiscernible] frankly, we are in multiple conversations around the general accounts, right now with MassMutual."
	We will continue to refine this work to steadily increase that percentage.
	Our goal in rebuilding our core add and map technology stacks was to address exactly these sorts of issues and increase engineering agility.
	"hi, Paul."
	"Ned Segal Thanks, Lloyd."
	So that's why those margins are down.
	"The new agreement preserves our competitiveness, manufacturing flexibility, and balance sheet strength without compromising earnings power."
	"We will be at the Jefferies conference, hardware and communications infrastructure summit, on August 27 and at the Citi Global Technology Conference on September 25."
	"But does Twitter have the access to the data that it needs to be able to do the kind of targeting and measurement that advertisers, particularly direct response advertisers in the kind of longer tail advertisers that you need for monetization expect for you to be able to grow revenue in pace with the kind of 17% user growth that you’ve got and 23% engagement growth that you’ve got?"
	Over half of the enforcement actions we take in any given week for violating our abuse rules is now proactively identified and verified by our agents before a victim or bystander has to report the violation.
	We continue with our efforts to improve our operating efficiencies and we're pleased to deliver Q2 non-GAAP operating margin improvement excluding the Salesforce.org non-cash accounting charge of approximately 66 basis points year-over-year.
	We want to continue to be able to grow our dividends every year under our markets.
	"So, we're working with our vendors and continue to drive forward in our sourcing strategy."
	And to do that we've really sharpened the focus on the elements that Roz mentioned and are executing with discipline.
	Let me turn it to Jack on on-boarding.
	I would like to remind you that our call is being webcast live on NVIDIA’s Investor Relations website.
	"And now, I'll hand this off to Mark Hawkins."
	"Adjusting for the impact of the strike, EPS would have been $2.24 an all-time quarterly record."
	"Obviously, HOVR seems like to be a nice win for you guys from a platform perspective."
	"Marty Flanagan Look, it’s a good question."
	Carne asada is a limited time offering that is easy to execute operationally and has a unique flavor profile.
	"And I think as an added thing too, I think as it relates to the APAC, we're also very happy with our sourcing model that we have."
	Two questions.
	"Being Under Armour means showing up with integrity every day, strapping on your HOVR Infinites, putting in the work, recognizing the scars while learning from them, celebrating the wins and looking to tomorrow where the hard work helps you get a little bit stronger, faster, and smarter."
	And then obviously we wanted to make sure it made sense financially.
	"Taking this to the bottom line, net income was $102 million or $0.23 in diluted earnings per share."
	"And then you did not mention raw materials as a potential tailwind, I was curious if you can give an update on what is represent this year and then how to think about it for next year?"
	"A couple of things to add, just to give you some financial to go with Jack's comments."
	"I’m just trying to sort of see, how that $2.9 my trend as the business gets a little bit better."
	These drivers are one of the largest reasons why we see that growth in our gross margin.
	"We've got new leadership in place and when we were with the team several weeks ago, reviewing the strategic outlook for the business in Paris, I think they see hydro as an important business relative to our overall renewables offering particularly in certain parts of the world, where hydropower is and/or -- is and will be a part of the energy transition."
	Thanks so much.
	"And overall, given the moving parts that you see, should we expect mortgage revenues to be at or above what we saw this quarter, particularly if we don't get the same sort of MSR noise?"
	"And Turing is the world’s first DXR, the first ray tracing GPU, brand-new functionality, brand-new API and a lot more performance."
	"Now going forward with digital, we do think there’s an opportunity with digital for us to get even more efficient."
	They could be new medical instruments to IoT-based medical instruments to monitor your health.
	Operator Thank you.
	"Click Software does not have a material impact on the cRPO growth and excluding this acquired cRPO, we anticipate that our cRPO growth would be approximately 20% year-over-year."
	"There is still further integration work to be completed, but we’re confident that we can deliver the higher level of expense synergy that we’re presenting to you today."
	"At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode."
	"And then maybe if we turn to capital for a second, so you've done two forwards over the last two quarters."
	And that's going to continue into 2020 as well.
	"With that, we’re ready to take your questions."
	We're doing what we said we would do.
	Mortgage escrow deposits grew $4.1 billion from the second quarter reflecting higher mortgage payoffs.
	And that's one that a commitment that we think we can complete over through open market purchases easily and effectively without using foreign purchases.
	The ability for machines to learn and write software by itself and write software that no humans can write is pretty extraordinary.
	I'm wondering if you're finding the retailers that adopted Demandware are actually competing better.
	Operator Your next question comes from the line of Aaron Rakers with Wells Fargo.
	Erinn Murphy Thank you.
	And they tend to mask the growth profile of our Channel Development business for fiscal 2020.
	And that’s the next phase of growth.
	You order ahead and you don't have to get out of your car and our model is already fast now.
	Chipotle really was in line unit execution.
	"So, this was all part of the discussions and I think as signifies but what we’re doing in Orion and what we’ll be doing into Detroit-Hamtramck."
	John will now discuss our financial results in more detail.
	Our next question comes from Erinn Murphy with Piper Jaffray.
	"[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Durga Doraisamy, Vice President of Investor Relations."
	Allen Parker Hi Matt.
	"Now consistent with our discussion in Q3, we are seeing margin pressure from continued increases in statutory minimum wages coupled with inflationary increases in rent, culinary maintenance and real estate taxes."
	I wondered if that has an impact on your business.
	But I wonder if you might comment on if you’ve seen any movement in the competitive landscape on the software side for the data center space.
	And so I expect this to be a growth market for us.
	"As you can see on the chart on this page, rates have been volatile and the yield curve has flattened significantly over the past year."
	Ryan Bailey Got it.
	Thank you.
	"Kevin Plank And, Jim, just a little perspective on that too."
	"And those are the areas where we'll know more when we get in – further into it, but that's all underway right now."
	Thank you very much.
	"And so, to the second part of your question, so we've had these efficiency programs in place for the last few years, which began before this biggest push in response to the Fed consent order and some other regulatory feedback, but through that process, we've got hundreds of programs that have gone activity-by-activity and said about taking unnecessary costs out, and then at the same time we've embarked on this getting it right from an operational risk, compliance, governance perspective, including all of the enabling technology, which is where all this money is being reinvested."
	"Aside from a couple – a few of uncontrollable circumstances and the exception of a couple of large customers, the overall trend, the broad-based trend, of our data center business is upward, to the right."
	"But let me be clear, we’re also working hard to lead in both the core and EV and AV world and creates significant shareholder value."
	"But if we see that in concert with those things that I talked about, that's really how I think we get to the positive flow picture."
	It's allowing us to create new beverage combinations that our customers are really responding to in addition to the growth in cold.
	"Steve Tusa Hey, guys."
	"So no plan to slowdown, if anything, our guidance was intended to inform people we’re going to be increasing."
	"In summary, while we had a number of significant items that impacted our third quarter financial results, we had strong underlying business fundamentals, including growth in loans and deposits, increased customer activity, strong credit performance, and higher capital returns."
	We still have opportunities to improve.
	Please go ahead.
	So $475 million goes to $501 million that's really clear.
	"This demonstrates that we are executing very well from an operational perspective, underpinned by continued focus in discipline."
	And then finally it would be great if you could update us with regards to the extent which you have or have not detected any perceived bias against U.S. based brands and the aftermath trade or other attentions in that market?
	"The turnaround in China's comp transaction growth moving from declines in the low to mid-single digits last year to an increase of 2% this year was equally impressive, especially considering our accelerated pace of store development in that market."
	We expect Q4 labor costs to be in the high 26% range given extra initial labor expenses associated with a significant number of new restaurants being opened in this quarter as well as lower seasonal sales in the fourth quarter.
	"Looking to the fourth quarter, factoring in strong sales we have seen thus far in October as well as the tougher comparison from last year, we expect Q4 comps to be in a high single digit range."
	We’re really excited to see that the stage-gate-process was predictive of what we’ve seen nationally.
	"I believe our company is in its strongest position ever, we are learning faster, prioritizing better, shipping more and hiring people who are out of reach before."
	And we’re now approaching the second half of the year getting ready for the back to school and the holidays.
	And then the second question is you are seeing in a very strong international DAU growth.
	"With respect to being a global company versus an international company, kind of the key tenant of being a global is that you act the same, you behave the same, you execute the same no matter where you are all over the world, whether it is with one or many customers."
	John Shrewsberry That's right.
	"There is more and more sites that are available for us and then now we've just added another lever called the Chipotlane, which I think is going to open even more sites for us in the future."
	"And as we go forward, I think we look at that 7% organic growth in the quarter, the 6% over the last four is evidence that even amidst the economic and political uncertainty that's out, this is a portfolio with secular dynamics around it that on balance should help us weather any storm that may come."
	"Marty Flanagan Bill, I think the point out, profitability will improve if that’s really the underlying question and you would get a margin expansion in that scenario that you’re talking about it."
	We also have a program we've been working on for many years call built-in quality level 4.
	We also have a lot of opportunity continue to improve our manufacturing processes.
	"And so, our teams have been selling into that and that's where we've been at the high point in the cycle for a while now."
	"So, over the last two-and-a-half years, we've been building capabilities to be competing with other people in our space in terms of how to think about everything from digital to social media, to out of home, whatever you want, and understanding that impact and effect it will have on the consumer that we're focused on."
	"Kevin Johnson Thanks, Hector."
	"Staying on the loan growth topic, you saw some pretty good declines in the commercial real estate portfolios this quarter again and just want to get your updated thoughts there, that's the one area that you're expect to see some runoff still or another words lack of growth, I guess?"
	"Mr. Flanagan, you may begin."
	Insurance assets increased due to unrealized gains driven by interest rate decreases and were offset by asset reductions at the WCS and from EFS asset sales.
	We don't know yet exactly how the special attrition program is going to play out.
	It's not that the company wasn't consumer centric before.
	"I guess, first, are you seeing improvement in churn with your user base, is that one of the metrics that is helping drive your DAU growth?"
	It's been an honor for me to serve as our Interim CEO and President over the last six months.
	Ken Worthington Can you first talk about the journey back to positive long-term net sales?
	Bill Katz Okay.
	"I'm happy to drill into those numbers, but I think on a year-to-date basis, which is still short-term for most of our funds, both here with the legacy Oppenheimer, we're seeing some notable improvement that has to continue."
	This will result in our 2019 full year comp guidance being at the top end of our high single digit range.
	Delivering AI at scale isn’t just about silicon.
	I’ll ask two.
	John Glass Got it.
	"Both professionally and personally, it's a perfect opportunity for me to blend more than 30 years' industry experience with my lifelong love of sport and human performance."
	"At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode."
	We wanted to make sure we had a product that our operators could execute.
	"On Chipotlanes, what percent of the existing 2,500 non-Chipotlane locations have the capacity or the ability to add a Chipotlane versus the amount that are structural enable and just also just curious about your appetite to retrofit these locations as you go through 2020 and beyond?"
	"And so I assumed that, that was driving a decent amount of checks."
	"And part of our ecosystem is really encompassing with our classic firms that we do business with like the Accentures, and the PWCs and the Deloitte to the world who are just well processed, but how do we extend that community to drive success for our customers everywhere in the world."
	Thanks for all the details.
	"To close, we delivered another strong quarter of durable revenue growth and organic margin expansion."
	We have provided the best estimated outlook given the information that we have today.
	Krista Bessinger Thank you.
	And I think we also haven't yet fully sort of explored the full opportunity with MassMutual and there the revenue synergies working with their advisors.
	Non-operating pension and other benefit plans were $0.05 in the quarter.
	Please proceed with your question.
	"Finally, we announced a data exchange agreement with Plaid, a leading data platform."
	And our last question will come from the line of Jennifer Lowe with UBS.
	In Q2 partners were engaged in 68% of our new business.
	We will take all of the necessary steps to achieve as much as possible to our original savings target.
	And so what improvement are you citing I guess or is it somewhere else that I could see that?
	"Mary Barra Well, I think in this Europe agreement we are dealing with the future, if we look at from an EB perspective we already build the Chevrolet Bolt EV in our Orion plant in Michigan, very significant discussions that we had as it relates to the battery electric truck with our UAW as it relates to what we’re going to do to tracking and trading."
	Rod Lache North America and GM Financial look like they were very strong this quarter.
	"Just wondering, if that's kind of ballpark correct, and then also can you quantify the buckets of the dollar savings offsets some attrition buyouts absenteeism and other productivity initiatives?"
	"And Josh on the Power Services and Power overall orders, when I was talking before about some better profile in the fourth quarter, I was talking specifically about services revenues in Power."
	"That setting also was not working as expected and we were passing on data, which we have not intended to."
	"Dan Fannon Yes, yes it does."
	"So that's contributing, that will contribute to some more volatility here because that can only be one way even though it's been a benefit for the last year."
	"So, that will be working for us in the fourth quarter."
	"So the focus that we've put on the customer experience in our stores, the focus we've put on beverage innovation, the focus we've put on digital customer relationships and the fact that we have executed against this with discipline has driven our customer connection scores to an all time high."
	But we believe it's prudent to reaffirm our guidance of 1% to 3%.
	Greg McGreevey Yes.
	"Our earnings included a number of significant items that John Shrewsberry will discuss, but I'll note at the outset that our underlying business fundamentals were strong."
	These statements are based on current expectations and are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
	Marty Flanagan Let me hit a couple of things and then Loren and Greg can pitch in.
	Loren?
	"And I think a lot we'll see as we get into next year as well, but the launches are on track."
	Your line is now open.
	Muse - Evercore Vivek Arya - Bank of America Merrill Lynch Toshiya Hari - Goldman Sachs Harlan Sur - JPMorgan Timothy Arcuri - UBS Matt Ramsay - Cowen Joe Moore - Morgan Stanley Aaron Rakers - Wells Fargo Stacy Rasgon - Bernstein Research Operator Good afternoon.
	"Patrik Frisk Thanks, Bob."
	"And is it a onetime in your opinion that it's not going to pop back up I would expect, but just wanted to get your understanding on that?"
	Operator From Citi we have Andrew Kaplowitz.
	So from a communication standpoint we’re certainly be clear about that and beyond that you’re right we don’t want to take much more about magnitude of that until February.
	Operator Your next question comes from the line of Emmanuel Rosner with Deutsche Bank.
	I mean you guys get a lot of credit for the decade of work that you’ve done on CUDA.
	"And if not, 2020, when?"
	And the two systems that we use there is called DGX for training and Constellation for simulation and what is called Replay.
	"In fact, this marks the seventh consecutive quarter of accelerating comparable sales, which highlights that running great restaurants with a purpose of cultivating a better world is a compelling proposition."
	"But you only grew at 3% sequentially, about $20 million."
	"We continue to focus on first returning capital to organic needs, through seed is not seeing significant needs around seed above and beyond expectations."
	Thank you.
	"And then the second question I have relates to the potential future litigation losses and I know in the -- in your Q, you give the number and it seems to be rising in most course."
	"We will obviously try and find any voluntary opportunities to do overtime beyond that, but it's not something I would call my baseline at this point."
	"It's about $500 million, it sounds like you're – you have to pay out between sort of 1Q and 2Q 2021."
	"But if you pull back on services in total, expect a more positive profile in the fourth quarter."
	"And then, just one other thing, and then, I'll stop, is the Global Coffee Alliance."
	"As mentioned earlier, we've deconsolidated Baker Hughes."
	Michael Cyprys Great.
	"These increases in expense more than offset meaningful contributions from sales leverage and cost savings initiatives, notably supply chain efficiencies."
	Please go ahead.
	"So, in agency MBS in particular, I want to say that we're probably down, gosh, 25 to 25 plus basis points on a reinvestment rate basis."
	"On the liability side, we did mention that there are some promotional deposits and other things that are burning down because they were in place as we were on the way up in rates, and so that will be a benefit, but I don't think we get quite to 250 in our forecast horizon."
	"John McDonald Hi, good morning."
	Brian Niccol Yes.
	"John Shrewsberry Well, I think at the asset side that's sort of fully reflecting re-pricing down."
	"The Brexit coming into the market environment has been a tremendous headwind for us, but that's a high degree of confidence in our investment teams."
	"Operator From Wolfe Research, we have Nigel Coe."
	This was up 50% from the $6 billion we returned last quarter.
	This guidance assumes around two points of growth from Salesforce.org and two to three points of growth from Tableau.
	"So when it comes public, we'll be able to talk a little bit more about that deal."
	Under Armour makes you better.
	You know what's interesting with our transformation has been this evolution in terms of how we think about creating product and services for a specific consumer mindset that's really allowed us as an organization to become incredibly consumer-centric.
	"Just hoping to dig in a little bit more on the institutional channel, it's good to hear that the pipeline is up and improving here."
	what's the likelihood that you shift this model to more of a traditional drive through operating structure at some point down the line?
	"And since that time, since the end of 2016, we're telling you that we're going to grow our revenues nearly half a billion dollars over that period of time through all this transformation and some of the things we've had to do with the restructuring charges, the pain that we had to go through with things like risk for our teammates, of just getting this business set up and organized."
	"As we told you guys at investor day, we're on plan to do exactly that, but also working hard to protect the premium positioning of the brand."
	"Jack Hartung Yes, Sharon on the investment, the investments about an extra $75,000 to add Chipotlanes, that would be for like an end-cap building."
	"North America delivered EBIT adjusted of the $3 billion, up $200 million year-over-year, and 10.8% margin driven by our heavy-duty truck performance, our crossover performance and the benefits from our cost actions."
	"And while their impact is not yet visible to investors, I'm optimistic that it will be over time."
	We know it’s going to be automated.
	"I want to conclude my comments this morning by thanking the members of our operating committee, our other senior leaders, and all our team members for their efforts, dedication, and perseverance during the last six months."
	So that is the number that we are saying you're going to get.
	"Multiple customers from OEMs like Mercedes-Benz, Toyota and Volvo to Tier 1s like Bosch, Continental and ZF are already onboard."
	Mortgage banking revenue declined $292 million from the second quarter driven by a $419 million decline in servicing income primarily due to the valuation adjustments on our MSRs reflecting higher prepayment rate estimates.
	"So one thing that is still very much weighing on our flow picture for the firm globally is sort of just the macro environment and some of the political uncertainty that exists, where we see risk off, it's affecting everybody."
	Thank you so much.
	My question might be for either Keith or Marc Benioff.
	"We’re seeing it drive both check-in transactions, which is also another thing we’re very excited about."
	Please go ahead.
	"Remaining performance obligation ended the second quarter approximately $25.3 billion, up 20% versus last year."
	Good luck.
	So we just think it’s appropriate for us to be talking about fee rates for clients.
	"It's easier to automate, and it's much less expensive to deliver, and I think from an investor perspective, it's important to know that we are fixing our status quo Wells Fargo the way that our individual processes have currently operate and then there is the opportunity to re-engineer."
	First does that create kind of future cash headwind?
	Keith Block Thanks Marc and thanks everybody for joining us on the call today.
	We created this role because we believe that having a single dedicated leader supporting our team members and customers in our branches will significantly further our ongoing transformation.
	Please go ahead.
	Let's move on to fiscal 2020 operating margin.
	"Second, is the blended margin profile of the recently acquired businesses namely Salesforce.org and Tableau, which we'd anticipate at roughly break even non-cash margins for FY 2020 inclusive of the purchase accounting."
	I'm wondering using 2020 hindsight here maybe what you think were the greatest challenges over the fourth quarter period or so where it seems like the comp trends were really challenged whether you thought it was internal or macro or competition?
	This guidance includes approximately $550 million to $600 million in revenue from our acquisition of Tableau.
	"We ceded majority control of Baker Hughes, which resulted in a pre-tax loss of $8.7 billion."
	"Patrick Davitt Yes, thank you."
	So that really the also part of the business continues to be in high demand institutionally and to looking for some opportunities in the retail channel.
	"John Shrewsberry Hi, Betsy."
	"Thank you, Omar."
	"Significant opportunity from a top line perspective, but as you point out we need to deliver better profitability amidst the growth we're enjoying today let alone growth that's down the road."
	GM has achieved 2.4 billion and transformation cost savings in 2018 and is on track to realize our 2019 targets.
	Operator The next question will be from David Palmer of Evercore.
	"And then just more broadly with your zero mission future roll, how aligned is your labor partner with you on this goal?"
	Krista Bessinger Thank you.
	"And then, as you mentioned, we do see renewables negatively impacting our own MAX."
	So we're super excited about that.
	Non-accrual loans declined $377 million from the second quarter with lower non-accruals in both the commercial and consumer portfolios.
	"Operator, we'll take the next question please."
	"On a full year basis, the change in accounting did have a beneficial impact to non-GAAP operating margin of about 40 basis points in fiscal 2019 and the greatest impact was in Q2 due to seasonality."
	"Last quarter, I mentioned making investments to fill the next chapter of our growth around the world."
	"But maybe just also talk about the growth sale initiatives and the potential to improve that from even levels before the deal, to what extent can you do that through the institutional offering of the Oppenheimer products in the potential sale of Oppenheimer retail in Europe."
	Thank you.
	"Today, we’ve crossed another threshold."
	"The third one, which is smaller, but is still an important lever is marketing, the marketing is a great way to bring people to service, but again it all comes back to the product, because if we don’t give people a good experience when they get there, they may not come back as frequently as we’d like."
	Let me give some color on each of these areas.
	"Marc Benioff Let me address – hi, Keith."
	"I mean, a lot of these things will take time because you’re talking about long-term relationship with suppliers, but I expect we’ll be able to talk next year about even more savings from the efforts of the supply chain team."
	I'm curious as far as just your overall value perception.
	"Your question about APIs and software programmability, APIs is just one of the issues."
	"Flows in our legacy or byproducts low during the quarter, which we had expected, but they are stabilizing."
	And some of the applications’ amazing AI capabilities for image optimization enhancement support RTX.
	"That integration is underway, let alone the improvements that we've referenced."
	Jim Duffy Good morning.
	If you look at companies in a variety of industries they like to differentiate themselves by service and customer experience is a big component of that.
	I’m just trying to get a handle on what are the puts and takes between unit growth here when coupled with the very strong comp momentum in the quarter?
	Correct me if I'm wrong.
	That's why as Marc mentioned Salesforce is the number two most appealing job according to GlassDoor.
	"So, I think what we’re trying to do is, and first of all, there is no limitation."
	"The majority of that, we've expected as we planned out the year."
	That was our kind of soul app if you will.
	"So, I think what you see a little bit relative to the year-on-year comp is just that a strong first half, good year-to-date numbers and I think -- we think a year that on balance will come in as anticipated."
	"I think we've – it’s well in excess of sort of $100 million of investments just generally around the firm across a variety of growth engine areas that we've talked about in the past around China, around solutions, around factor-based investing."
	"But that is not necessarily a strategic call once and for all time, right?"
	Interest and other expense net was $6 million.
	"One example of this is making better use of list, a lot of people construct list around a topical area, so it includes a number of accounts that might fit a particular topic."
	Please see the risk factors contained in our 2018 annual report on Form 10-K and in our subsequent Form 10-Qs for a discussion of risks that may cause our actual results to vary from these forward-looking statement.
	"And but I think there's others that, we will look to see how it plays out."
	This is Dave.
	We are seeing encouraging early results from this new format.
	"If there’s an update in terms of how much money was saved in the third quarter, if there’s an outlook for the fourth quarter and what the visibility is for some of the supply chain work on fiscal 2020 to start contribute more meaningfully the margins overall."
	And then obviously it’s got to play a role in the financial model so that it’s continuing to move Chipotle forward.
	And what we feel really good about is the leadership that's now in place in North America.
	"And next, we incurred a $0.02 charge for the $5 billion debt tender, which reduces pre-tax interest expense by $150 million per year, generating positive economics."
	This is representing the work that we're doing with beverage innovation.
	And digital obviously is moving very fast.
	"You don't see it so much in these equipment and service numbers, but I think as we go into 2020, you're going to see improved margin and cash performance from these businesses ex the legacy Alstom-related issues."
	Your line is open.
	"Allen Parker Thank you, John."
	Thanks for joining us.
	That has yet to sort of get plugged in.
	And when you start to think about that it's the renewable volume ramp that Larry mentioned and talked about coupled with the Grid and Hydro project execution.
	"Sorry if that's a – if it was redundant and previously indicated, I just wanted to clarify."
	Please go ahead.
	That's just an incredible lean forward for Trailhead.
	Yeah.
	The question comes from the account of @BitcoinMunger.
	Can you share with us your vision for M&A as you look ahead and how you think especially now that you've kind of gotten into the on-premise market as well?
	"So, both of those plans are perfectly on track."
	Maybe two with respect to the advertising metrics.
	Just curious on how we can think about the long-term growth algorithm of the footwear business going forward.
	We continue to push control and accountability down to the businesses.
	"But clearly, whether -- pick the business right, pick the newspaper."
	Question-and-Answer Session Operator Thank you.
	We anticipate that’s going to continue to grow.
	"Sir, you may begin."
	"Thank you, Kevin."
	"Importantly, our new stores continued to deliver exceptionally high returns even as we extended our presence to new cities, while infilling established cities."
	"So continuing to make the case to advertisers, we're in $125 to $130 billion digital ads market that grows 20% a year, that they should launch more new products and services and invest more against those launches on Twitter that they should do more to connect with what's happening on Twitter."
	It sounds like the reduction of sales into the off-price channel impacted the growth rate of that category.
	"An archive of the webcast will be available on our website through Thursday, November 28, 2019."
	"Together, we look forward to a great year ahead and to sharing our results and our progress in future quarters."
	To explain the drivers we will start on page 16.
	"Operator From Melius Research, we have Scott Davis."
	"Walking from continuing EPS, we had $0.02 of losses, primarily from the unrealized mark-to-market of our remaining Baker Hughes investment and our Wabtec stake exit."
	You look at the numbers scenarios in China that are digital mobile scenarios.
	"I think, we are in turn planning conservatively here for the fourth quarter, just given those trends and some of the uncertainty in China right now around the relatively more short-cycle nature of Healthcare broadly, certainly in our business."
	"As you know, we don't provide information as to the portion of our reserves that's applicable to any particular litigation or other items and with regard to the DOJ and SEC investigations that began in 2006, we really don't have any update beyond what we said in our prepared remarks and what we previously disclosed in our last quarter 10-Q, our discussions with the DOJ and SEC are ongoing and when we have more information to disclose, we'll of course do so."
	"Equipment orders were down 4% organically, while services were up 3%."
	"Just, Ned, to kind of go back to that question on the auction market and sort of the changes that you saw, given that you talked about how just sort of it naturally adjusted and advertiser demand adjusted."
	"With more than 31,000 stores in 82 markets welcoming over 100 million customer occasions each week and enabling over one billion digital customer occasions per year, Starbucks is a part of our customers' everyday routines around the world."
	"The – obviously, we’re delight we’ve got 7 million users now in rewards program."
	Thank you to all our employees for all that you do.
	[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Simona Jankowski from Investor Relations to begin your conference.
	That is in turn driving traffic growth.
	"Importantly, digital remains highly incremental and we continue to see residual lift in delivery sales that lasts beyond any promotion."
	In China we posted 5% comp sales growth in Q4 including comp transaction growth of 2%.
	"I believe we are still in the early stages of our journey and we need to stay focused on our priorities and executing flawlessly to support our growth, while providing our customers with the experience they expect from Chipotle."
	The second part of your question has to do with synergies.
	"So by all accounts, we’re delighted with what carne asada is doing for the business."
	Thank you very much.
	"John Tower Taking the question, just going back to the digital piece of the business, with digital and specifically order ahead mix moving higher as a percentage of your sales, does this potentially open up more opportunities on the menu over time?"
	"Although we're excited about 2020 and where we're going, where we're driving, we're going to hold further comment on that until the first week of December."
	"And to your point, we are running those all out."
	It's really 2018 into this year.
	"The third area I wanted to address is Asia-Pacific, a region we remain incredibly excited and measured in our approach to growing the brand."
	"So all those things are going to contribute and although we revived it based on the decision we made, largely related to Detroit-Hamtramck."
	"While Dave will provide more color in our full-year outlook, it is important to note that this shortfall in sales to the off-price channel is a contributing factor to our updated revenue outlook for the full year."
	"One way to think about it is if you go back to the Super Bowl, we had 30 of the 38 advertisers from the Super Bowl on Twitter at the same time, but there are 8 to whom we still need to make the case, that they ought to be on Twitter."
	And in China what you see is the consumer base in China is much more digitally savvy than any other market in the world.
	"Beyond carne asada, we are also testing queso blanco, salads in quesadillas."
	"And I think the investments we've made that Dave alluded to, which has been expanding the China office and also putting our new Hong Kong headquarter in place, has really enabled our leadership teams there to continue the work that we're doing to really penetrate the market through category and also distribution in terms of opening stores."
	"Well, it was a bigger move than was expected, and I am always -- I am reluctant to say that it could never happen again, but the way we estimate the customer response to their in the moneyness for a refinance given what we know about -- what type of cohort they are following is the basis of how we estimate that, and it happens -- it's been happening at a faster pace, and so we think we have captured that in this valuation adjustment."
	"Now, it is my pleasure to hand the conference over to Mr. John Cummings, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations."
	"So, you should expect also our gaming business to continue to grow to reach that full normalization by the end of Q3."
	We also had a modest $50 million reserve build compared with the $150 million reserve release last quarter.
	And how do we win?
	"After which, we will take your questions."
	"Thanks, Loren."
	Thank you for joining.
	And I'll let Marc to answer the rest of the question.
	These GPUs delivered a performance boost of up to 24% from our initial Turing GPUs launched a year earlier.
	"And then we’ve got other indications where when we’ve added additional access like the Chipotlane, you get well beyond 20%."
	We see what's happening with pork supplies throughout the world.
	"At the center of this pursuit, the very reason we exist is our mission."
	"One follow-up, if I may, on the reduced sales to off-price now planned for the year."
	"So, we are continuing to invest on this and you'll see more midsole technologies come to bear in 2020 as well going forward."
	[Operator Instructions].
	Brian Niccol Yes.
	Everybody knows the Fourth Industrial Revolution is underway.
	We expect our diluted EPS to be at the high-end of our previously given range of $0.33 to $0.34 which includes about $0.01 of negative impact related to the performance of our licensee in Japan.
	We saw some smaller benefits from higher connected fitness mix.
	John Shrewsberry So we're not currently forecasting over our horizon to quite hit that level.
	"During its initial month on sale, customer demand greatly outpaced available supply and we are doubling our production this month."
	"That said, I would like to highlight some anomalous items that impacted our year-over-year margin performance, four headwinds and one tailwind."
	This number excludes increases in the pension deficit due to lower interest rates as accounting rules only require an annual re-measurement of that liability at year-end.
	"So maybe what gives you confidence that you aren’t hitting some sort of ceiling in that, the consumer doesn’t want to transact more than they are in digital channels."
	"And overall, if you look at the levels we're seeing in 2019 for spare engine shipments they are up over 2018, but we expect them to be about flat as we go into 2020."
	"The environment is more challenging than just a few months ago, but the entire team is focused on our execution, both over the short and long-term."
	"We walked the aisle, in Shanghai."
	We are improving our financial position and expect to make significant progress toward our Industrial leverage goal of less than 2.5 times net debt-to-EBITDA by the end of 2020.
	"Moving to the rest of the P&L, Q2 GAAP gross margins was 59.8% and non-GAAP was 60.1%, up sequentially, reflecting higher automotive development services, a favorable mix in gaming and lower component cost."
	"And that’s where we see the excitement and really what’s going to be the force behind, you can see the growth of the organization."
	How much of that increase in corporate did come from spare engines to GECAS?
	"Saul Martinez Okay, but the math is right, I guess the math is right that 6% would be in the 11 billion or so range for the fourth quarter on a reported basis?"
	"We also announced plans to pilot, next year, Wells Fargo Digital Cash, which is designed to enable us to complete internal booked transfers of cross-border payments running on our first distributed ledger technology platform."
	"In addition to Cruise, GM and Honda continued their joint development of a new purpose built shared autonomous vehicle."
	This lowers our EPS forecast by $0.05 and our restructuring expense forecast by about $200 million with no material change to our outlook for organic growth margin expansion or Industrial free cash flow.
	And at the same time it seems like the Amazon is hurting some of the others whether it would be Sears or Barneys or Nordstrom or the GAP or others.
	Actually that number is 17.6 million.
	"It is not an area where we've seen as much strength in the recent past, as we continue to work to come out with a new version of it, we think that that will give us, not just a better opportunity around mobile application promotion, but also around more direct response advertising more broadly because the same work in helping people launch campaigns faster, around doing better targeting, around more compelling formats and ultimately fewer impressions to realize their objectives are the same things that should help with more down the funnel advertising."
	I'm just curious if that continues to grow in the U.S?
	"Comp sales grew 11% in the quarter, which includes a 10 basis point reduction as a result of deferred revenue from our Rewards program."
	Thank you for your participation.
	So we've been very purposeful to be – I think very measured in how we go about ramping up our new unit development.
	"Itay Michaeli But just lastly on Cruise, I think back in July, Cruise mentioned they would accelerate testing and validation in the balance of 2019."
	Thanks.
	We estimate the calendar year EPS diluted adjusted impact to be approximately 4$2 per share and adjusted automotive free cash flow impact to be approximately $5.5 billion including the impact of working capital unwind.
	"And third, with the Deep Brew and our predictive analytics, we're going to be able to determine if a machine needs preventative maintenance on it before it breaks."
	"Jim Duffy Okay, great."
	"Yes, sure."
	"In the U.S., I think in that particular market, we've had digital flywheel and the active rewards member growth for several years now."
	"Erinn Murphy Great, thank you both for that response."
	"As it pertains to earnings, we're keeping our EPS outlook at $0.55 to $0.65 even after adjusting for Baker Hughes which is largely due to GE Capital earnings."
	"We expect revenue to be $2.9 billion, plus or minus 2%."
	"So people are very much in tune with the idea of food with integrity, real culinary, real ingredients, cooking done right in front of them, as well as some new product menu news around Carne Asada."
	Edward Yruma Hey.
	"At Renewable Energy, we're well positioned to capitalize on the energy transition."
	So look what we think are fundamental strengths of our organization.
	We currently estimate that the impact of the adoption of CECL at the beginning of next year will be a reduction in our allowance of approximately $1.4 billion.
	"Youssef Squali Great, thank you."
	"And maybe just comments about how historically this is a business that really spent away a lot of the upside, so you'd get fits and starts and operating leverage, but it never really stuck?"
	"First, looks like the adjusted free cash flow with the adjustments you're making would have put this year's free cash flow at $5.5 billion to $6 billion, if it wasn't for the strike."
	The laptop business continues to be a standout growth driver as OEMs are ramping a record 100-plus gaming laptop models ahead of the back to school and holiday season.
	I will now turn the call over to Kevin.
	Any color there on international would be helpful?
	Jeff Sprague Thank you.
	"This partial redemption will reduce the amount of our quarterly preferred stock dividends by approximately $23 million, starting in the fourth quarter."
	But I think there is plenty of opportunity for us to grow from where we are today and what we probably will do in 2020.
	"These uncertainties are detailed in this morning's press release and documents filed regularly with the SEC, all of which can be found on our website at about.underarmour.com."
	We're delighted with the performance of the business this past year but it's -- and we certainly are optimistic about our ability to sustain strong performance into fiscal 2020.
	So I'm not surprising as the unit economics continue to improve.
	"And we believe that, as we turn the corner into 2020, we're going to be even more well positioned to benefit from the executional aspect of putting the play together, now supporting also with a little bit more purposeful and heavy up marketing effort."
	This is tens of millions of people who are creators.
	"Along with ongoing cost efficiencies, we're taking this opportunity to proactively invest back into the brand through increased marketing spend, giving us a head start on 2020 and a deliberate shift from defense to offense for this brand."
	I guess what's going to I guess prevent you from making that shift at some point?
	"Commercial real estate loans declined $2.2 billion from the second quarter with declines in both commercial real estate mortgage and commercial real estate construction loans reflecting increased market liquidity, higher refinancing activity, and continued credit discipline."
	Thank you.
	"We talked about steam power conversion, but I think the team is making good progress."
	"By staying disciplined and executing against this plan, we put ourselves in the best position to reignite growth to unlock the full potential of the Under Armour brand."
	Let me start and I’ll turn it to Jack on the on-boarding question.
	Thanks.
	"But programming isn’t as simple as a PowerPoint slide, I guess."
	Operator Your next question comes from the line of Vivek Juneja with JPMorgan.
	Your line is open.
	We currently have 7 million enrolled members and have only scratched the surface on database marketing.
	"John Glass Okay, that’s helpful."
	And that’s the reason why we test these things.
	"Also, we received notification of a recent $100 million when into the newly launched OFI emerging markets local debt fund on our cross-border fund range in EMEA."
	"And then, perhaps more specifically, on the North America backdrop as part of the driver of the lower guide, can you help us perhaps explain what's changed since we spoke last quarter in terms of outlet traffic or in terms of that online conversion which is weighing on sales growth a little bit?"
	I’m so proud of the collective efforts of our teams rolling out this new premium steak.
	And it was a combination of both.
	"The first is, we saw a real breadth in terms of DAU growth, we grew DAU double-digits in all 10 of our top 10 markets and we were thrilled that the improvements that we’re bringing to the service are being felt by people all over the world, people who are new to Twitter, people who have used Twitter in the past, but have use it less frequently, both continue to be real opportunities in areas where we’ve had success."
	"And while there are some dynamics in and around Healthcare that I mentioned earlier say in China, I think by and large, again given the nature of Healthcare, while we have some short-cycle exposure to a degree, it's far less than most businesses."
	"But again, the team there is making great progress as well."
	"But more importantly, in addition to that, we’re seeing that AI is – the wave of AI is going from the cloud to the enterprise to the edge and all the way out to the autonomous systems."
	A few highlights for me and Ned before we get to your questions.
	I think the quantum fade over time.
	This is our vision that really is at the heart of what's happening at the Fourth Industrial Revolution.
	"Just wanted to drill that down on the potential recoup, some of the loss production took on the T1 pickup truck side in the 2020."
	In Australia we expanded with ANZ Bank [ph] and form new relationships with Ramsay Health Care and the Australian Department of Environment and Energy.
	This was my decision and the culmination of a rigorous approach to succession planning in partnership with our Board of Directors.
	"And therefore, we are making targeted investments to elevate the partner experience, with clear evidence that this in turn elevates the customer experience and drives growth."
	And we intend to build on this momentum in the year ahead.
	Looking at Healthcare.
	Obviously renewables is an important business.
	"Larry Culp Hey Josh, good morning."
	Next question please.
	Part of the reason that we were able to talk about that client on the institutional side and a lot of the other pipeline is really the result of that investment that we made a number of years ago in solutions.
	Does it go back to prior levels?
	We've seen companies like Target and Wal-Mart and Home Depot doing well.
	"And depending on where you are in the world and what channel you're in, we're more or less successful with that, and it depends a lot on the type of inventory that we have in the channel."
	Operator Your next question comes from the line of Adam Jonas with Morgan Stanley.
	"And then I guess, the second question, Colette, is of the $300 million growth into October, it sounds like Switch is pretty flat, but I’m wondering if you can give us maybe some qualitative sense of where the growth is coming from, is it maybe like two-third gaming and one-third data centers, something like that?"
	"Every month, we publish new optimization and performance improvements to CUDA-X AI libraries, supporting every AI framework and development environment."
	"There's a couple reasons, why we feel confident about our future in what we've been doing with the beverage innovation, the work we've been doing with in-store experience and our digital engagement."
	I'll take it a step back maybe and sort of reflect on what it means of where we find success.
	"Those would be things like our global equity suite, things on the global fixed income side, muni bonds to mention kind of three very specific areas."
	"However, we did mentioned in my remarks that it is doing exceptionally well in South America because it's at the heart of the market and the biggest segment."
	"thanks, Jim."
	Could you give the number what that is this quarter?
	"We implemented a global operating model and creating the four regions with APAC, EMEA, Latin America and North America."
	John Shrewsberry Very close.
	"And then Loren, maybe just on the fee rate, so you got to bump this quarter with Oppenheimer, the trend over the past couple of years has been a little bit more on the negative side."
	Our next question comes from Randy Konik with Jefferies.
	"Allen Parker Yes, the whole process of account closures is complicated in any financial institution because there are situations where people close their accounts voluntarily, whether they call a call center or they walk into a branch, and there are also situations where accounts have to be closed for legal or regulatory reasons, and there are a variety of considerations that go into how that's done, and we're going through very carefully and looking at all those considerations and coming to the conclusion as to the changes, if any, that we ought to make with respect to the way that we've handled ourselves in the past."
	Glenn Schorr Okay.
	It looked like Gas Power lost about $100 million of EBIT in Q3.
	"Is that in the 3Q number, which I guess would imply kind of maybe the smaller order sizes are pretty small in the quarter?"
	"Healthcare Systems revenue was up 3% organically with strong growth in Japan and Latin America, partially offset by pressure in China and the Middle East."
	Our press release was issued this morning and the conference call materials are available on the GM Investor Relations website.
	"The second piece, the transactional book, we are seeing revenue down."
	It's a little bit harder of an environment for them to be putting capital to work because asset prices are so high.
	"Over this past year, we have been dialling up our in-house capabilities and investments in AI with an initiative we call, Deep Brew."
	"The full year, we're still driving hard as far as investments in DTC expansion, new APAC office investments, APAC and LatAm SAP investments, all well within our investor day operating principle range of 3% to 5% of revs."
	You may now disconnect.
	"He's running that business himself in addition to looking after the rest of the portfolio, brought in a new CFO from the outside, Glen Ferguson."
	"Finally, at this juncture, we foresee minimal impact from foreign currency movements in fiscal 2020."
	I'd like to turn the conference back over to Brian Niccol for any closing remarks.
	I'm noting that you're remaining debt matures in 2021 and 2024.
	We are now estimating savings of $501 million.
	"Ashish Kohli Hello, everyone, and welcome to our third quarter 2019 earnings call."
	That really is one market where there's late cycle behavior.
	We've also made significant progress at our transformational cost initiatives.
	But when I talk to the CEOs of all the major companies in the world that's what they need to transform is all of the above.
	All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session.
	And software still continues to be improved on it.
	So I first want to clarify what's happening with breakage.
	Operator From JPMorgan we have Steve Tusa.
	"And this quarter, just very similar to what we will see going forward, is mix is the largest driver, what drives our overall gross margins and our gross margin improvements."
	We believe our core value propositions of launching something new and connecting with what’s happening on Twitter continue to resonate with advertisers and a slower business over this summer was in part due to a relatively lighter slate of big events and launches in July and August compared to 2018.
	"At Healthcare, we've got biopharma growth and continued cost control at HCS."
	Operator The next question is from Sharon Zackfia with William Blair.
	"We’re on track with our 2019 target of $2 billion to $2.5 billion, achieving $1.9 billion year-to-date and $800 million in the third quarter."
	"Over 80% of our capital spending in fiscal 2020 will be allocated to where we see significant return opportunities within our Starbucks retail portfolio, new stores and strategic store-related initiatives including renovations of existing locations."
	"In the first half of this year alone over 72,000 new job postings for Salesforce jobs were posted on just the top two job sites."
	And we think that's only going to be a trend that will continue.
	You may also hear us refer to amounts in accordance with US GAAP.
	"And so, the way that we balance that and that we work together tirelessly with each other on communication and making sure that we're aligned, but also making sure that Patrik has the freedom and the ability to lead and do the part that he can, running the day-to-day aspects of the business and really running and managing the business."
	"Year-over-year, industry vehicle sales declined nearly 11% in the quarter."
	"So a lot of new light and medium users, and then we're seeing really nice behavior associated with all those various cohorts."
	Equipment revenue was up 6% and services revenue was up 62%.
	"And I guess similarly, with digital, a lot of commentary there."
	"So, I saw that you guys at Gartner ranked you guys, Salesforce as a leader in low-code and in addition you're doing really well in Decision Support with Einstein."
	Kevin Plank Yeah.
	So it’s a relatively modest investment.
	"I'll tell you that I think that we are rapidly heading towards this Fourth Industrial Revolution and that this digital transformation is hitting every industry, and retail certainly is one of the major industries that is really been taken the stand and deliver, and you are seeing a bifurcating between those organizations who are ready for this transformation and those who aren't."
	Chris McNally The reversal of working capital?
	We do expect the rest of our platforms to likely also grow.
	"It’s the same $75,000 on a free standard, but a free standard just cost more than an end-cap."
	Can that happen sometime – later this year?
	"And my second question, obviously you can't speak for the new CEO."
	Paul Lejuez.
	"Andrew Charles Great, thanks guys."
	"Number one, it's overlapping some unusual benefits that we realized in fiscal 2019."
	So that can have a different kind of impact.
	Both these rates are lower or below our full year guidance range due to the recognition of excess tax benefits on stock-based compensation during the quarter.
	"John Shrewsberry Yes, so my expectation is that deposit costs will be cheaper in the fourth quarter reflecting what you described in terms of kind of the burning out of the higher cost deposits that got layered in before the Fed began to ease."
	Jeffrey Bernstein Great.
	"I mean I think it's perfectly set up for him to deliver, so Bret you want to hit it."
	"I think we like the renewables space broadly, and we're really trying to fortify the position we have both in offshore wind, you see that with the step up in R&D the introduction of the Haliade-X, but also other aspects, including hydro where frankly the businesses isn't operating to its full potential today."
	Thanks.
	"Larry Culp John, I think that obviously, we didn't come into this year expecting what has played out in that regard."
	Is it a matter of the throughput or is it a matter of the supply being a little more difficult?
	"Our balance sheet remains strong with cash and investments totaling $844 million, as of September 30."
	"So, I think when you look at all those things in 2020, we’ll have more color for that as we do that February earnings call for Q4, but those are the things that we’re seeing right now that we think we’ll carry into 2020."
	"So, we’ll figure out exactly the right pacing and sequencing and whether or not it’s something we want to have permanently in the business or if we continue to use it more as like a seasonal item."
	"Maybe talk China specifically, progress there."
	"When you think about the full year, North America, we expect to be landing down slightly on the full year versus international, which should be up at a low double-digit rate."
	"In addition to that, we've seen working capital and sales allowance and policy and warranty and so on timing items are driving the remaining amount there."
	We also expect Q3 GAAP diluted loss per share of $0.21 to $0.20 and non-GAAP diluted EPS of $0.65 to $0.66.
	Dhivya Suryadevara Yes.
	But still some work to be done there on both the model and how we continue to introduce Chipotle in the new markets.
	"They also want to learn about Salesforce culture and our values and how we can help them drive success with their customers, their partners and their employees."
	"Scott Siefers Okay, perfect, thank you."
	You see it showing up in sports marketing.
	"I think this is part of the process we've had in the go-to-market of truly setting up this funnel of technology and innovation that points toward specific date where we can either, A, launch or announce building that franchise with things to be done, like Curry, Rock product, HOVR, our overall training line, and then also being able to do it and talk about it through amplified moments of things like building spacesuits through the new Virgin Galactic program and taking eight technologies we have in our in-line commercial products that we're demonstrating are capable of going to space."
	"And how do you program such a computer across multi-GPU, multi-node?"
	We are fortunate enough because of our culture and the type of company and our values to be a destination company for talent.
	"From a raw material and tariff perspective to your point, I said this before in prior quarters, there's puts and takes, it's hard to look at just one number and paint it all with the same brush."
	Thanks.
	"Our results, press release, SEC filings and a replay of today's call can be found on our IR website at www.salesforce.com/investor."
	"So with that, I will turn it over to Dhivya."
	And it is growing very nicely.
	"And then moving into Q4, we’ve got a little bit of a challenge."
	Jen-Hsun Huang SUPER is off to a great start.
	We opened 25 new restaurants in the quarter bringing our total openings for the year to 60.
	We normally see obviously a pickup in shipments so therefore working capital draws down.
	Please go ahead.
	"And we're seeing morning and lunch day part increasing, so, very optimistic about that."
	And then I had a follow-up.
	We launched four flavors in August and we earned about 10.4 billion impressions as we made that announcement.
	"First, fiscal 2019 was a very good year for Starbucks financially, reflecting sustained upward momentum in our business."
	But what is consistent across both and is an important part of our strategy going forward is continuing to make those strategic investments in our business that strengthen key points of competitive difference and help us to sustain top line growth for the long term.
	"So, those amounts are not dramatic, but they're not that we want to note and give extra color around that and we're going to continue to drive forward and, hopefully, we can continue to operationally improve each month as we move forward."
	"So just to reaffirm, that Global Coffee Alliance became EPS accretive in fiscal 2019 which is faster than we had originally expected when we completed the transaction."
	I wonder if you could just help us with kind of the timing dynamics that were at play here.
	Interest and other expense net is planned at approximately $30 million and our effective tax rate is unchanged at approximately 22%.
	Your line is now open.
	"And every one of these companies needs a strong platform like Demandware, but I'll tell you it's more than that, it means that they have a real Customer 360 because once that customer actually gets to the store you want to know everything about them in terms of a 360 experience."
	"That's going to be quarter-to-quarter John, it's going to vary based on seasonality and so on and so forth."
	I’m pleased to announce that carne asada is the latest item behind Lifestyle Bowls and our Rewards program to be successfully validated through this process and all three are meeting or exceeding our expectations.
	"The majority of the beverage growth was driven by our cold platform, which grew across all dayparts led by cold coffee, refreshment and tea."
	Could you give us some color on what initiatives you might be able to pursue or timing?
	Seasonality - more pronounced seasonality than we had anticipated in July and August would be on top of that.
	And David from a China standpoint I agree with what Kevin's comments were around the Chinese consumer and their digital capability and the savvy that they have.
	Please go ahead.
	Jared Orr Hi.
	"Hi, Omar."
	"Just trying to understand sort of the thought process of what, how to size the labor for us going forward?"
	And then they can also use it on-prem if their usage really grows significantly.
	We also have bigger e-commerce events that are normally in Q2 and Q4 as well.
	"And, some will play a bigger role in traffic driving than others and that’s why you got to have a pipeline of different products to play a different role in the business."
	Glenn Schorr Thank you.
	"But as you can well appreciate, we're working very closely with Boeing, very closely with our carrier customers to prepare for that safe return to service not only with respect to the planes and the engines that have been delivered, but those that are in inventory or on the production line today."
	"So we're delivering the full synergies, 105% of the synergies effective this quarter, so pretty much all that kind of wait for it to come has gone."
	And I believe that we started that.
	Second is DTC.
	"Finally, and Ned will explain more on this, revenue."
	"So, before I wrap it up, I'd be remiss to not talk about the incredible progress we continue to make in inventory management."
	Question-and-Answer Session Operator [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of C.J.
	Now the OEMs were so excited about it.
	"I know you're not guiding to 2020, but just maybe contextualize how much the improved service level is showing into 4Q, so we could start to think about, I guess, our 1Q estimate correctly."
	"So I guess what I will say, and I'll turn it over to John to talk about some of the financial impacts."
	All of those really want to be edge computing systems and edge inference systems.
	This is driven by debt issuances totaling $5 billion in the past 14 months combined with what we expect to issue this fiscal year.
	"From a brand and storytelling perspective, where seamless physical and digital connectivity is table stakes for our consumer engagement, we have been working diligently to better activate our assets to drive the highest returns."
	We continue to be really excited about the opportunity in Japan.
	"And the combination of Field Service Lightning which grew 100% by the way year-over-year in the quarter and Click Software is very, very compelling."
	So – and what we've seen is the response has been positive to both messages.
	"So, when we think about other brands that are coming up or entering into the marketplace in a category or in a space, there's an opportunity today, of course, to do that more easily than ever before."
	"We also formed within Consumer Banking, a new Enterprise Customer Excellence Group that will, over time bring together functions from across the company and give us broader insight into the customer experience."
	"The strategic partnership will enable Volvo Group to develop a wide range of autonomous driving solutions for freight transport, recycling collection, public transport, construction, mining, forestry and more."
	So we’re definitely confident that we are far from the ceiling.
	Thanks.
	"Pat Grismer Certainly, so John, what I'd like to highlight is what is driving the difference between our total revenue growth guidance for fiscal 2020, and our long-term growth model."
	Please go ahead.
	"Two quick questions, one just on MSR revaluation, I mean I realized that there was some pre pays in the quarter, and I know that you guys are really good estimating that."
	And why is renewables so important?
	"Orders were mainly driven by onshore, up 19% including $500 million of Cypress orders and the offshore EDF deal of $700 million."
	"In terms of the revised transformational restructuring savings, the $4 billion to $4.5 billion, does that include the productivity initiatives you've outlined?"
	"Particularly, the work that we've done with Nespresso is paying dividends."
	Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded.
	The four headwinds were 70 basis points from streamline-driven activities; 50 basis points from U.S. tax reform-funded investments; 20 basis points from Siren Retail; and another 20 basis points from our onetime investment in the Chicago leadership conference.
	There is a Cruise labor force.
	Why is progress down versus the backlog up?
	"The place where we’re seeing a lot of excitement, and we talked about that in the past and we’re seeing growth there, has to do with the vertical industry enterprises that are starting to adopt AI to create new products, whether it’s a delivery robot or some kind of a Chat Bot or the ability to detect fraud in financial services, these applications in vertical industries are really spreading all over the place."
	"So, we feel really good."
	That's for sure.
	One example of this is our work on public conversation health.
	Stacy Rasgon Hi guys.
	And we will now turn it back to Mr. Winoker for closing remarks.
	It's not like after that we stop.
	"As I - as I mentioned in my opening remarks, we have been experimenting with both interest and topics, more broadly."
	And you're going to have to dig in a little harder and it's not going to be as easy to some of these gains?
	This outlook reflects approximately $200 million in FX headwind for the full year.
	"Adjusted for these items, we are very pleased to deliver robust organic constant currency revenue growth across each of our clouds in Q2."
	But that is remixing to higher margin.
	"With that, we'll open up the call for your questions."
	Some of that is volume.
	"Year-to-date Industrial free cash flow was negative $1.6 billion, down $1.3 billion due to many of the same pressures we saw in the second quarter including the onshore wind ramp execution and 737 MAX grounding."
	Jake Bartlett Got it.
	We’re just grateful there is so much of it.
	Services orders were up 15%.
	"You mentioned Target, I mean you just have to go in and see what they've done online is matched as well as what they've done in the physical store."
	"We believe, but we're not at the point where we're able to commit to that."
	"Revenue of $3.9 billion was down 14% reported and down 3% organically due to Power Portfolio, which was down 37% reported and 15% organically largely driven by steam."
	So it's more of a project-oriented business.
	And so those are coming in at lower fee rates and that is a good thing for us.
	"And look, we have Sterling being at, what is it 120, 129 is a whole lot different than 119."
	"For the third quarter, EBITDA adjusted in GMI was down $200 million year-over-year driven by lower equity income in China."
	And the benefits thus far are very meaningful for the business across all markets.
	"Mary Barra So when we made the transformation announcement last year, although we had a battery electric truck in our plan."
	Operator Thank you.
	We believe there is an opportunity for us to add some additional cushioning technology at the very high end of the spectrum.
	Turning to our outlook for operating margins we now expect FY 2020 non-GAAP operating margins to be down approximately 50 basis points year-over-year.
	For EPS we're updating our FY 2020 GAAP diluted EPS of $0.28 to $0.30 and our non-GAAP diluted EPS of $2.82 to $2.84.
	So we’re seeing frequency compression and we’re seeing new users coming in.
	But that's really what you're seeing.
	The one percentage point difference between next year's expected revenue growth and our ongoing growth model of 7% to 9% revenue growth is attributable to two things: number one the sale of our ownership interest in Thailand in mid-fiscal 2019; and number two an expected 7% to 8% decline in Channel Development's revenue as we lap certain items related to the Global Coffee Alliance that benefited the segment's top line growth in fiscal 2019.
	And do you think it would help accelerate your sales in that important broker sold channel for you?
	"Eric Compton Okay, that's helpful, and then one last question."
	"There are many types of applications where because of the laws of physics reasons, the speed of light reasons or the economics reasons or data sovereignty reasons, it’s not possible to stream the data to the cloud and have the inference done at the cloud."
	So the fleet is running.
	"We talked about at $2.1 million volume, we should generate a margin of about 21% and we’re right about there."
	"Since the midyear point, we've progressed on the supply chain finance transition, which has had a minimal impact and Aviation is stronger than expected due to lower allowance and discount payments this year and higher service billings, which has largely offset the year-to-date impact of approximately $1 billion from the 737 MAX grounding."
	Thanks for joining our third quarter call.
	Is it right to think that Chipotlane is higher than that just given this is a winning prototype for future development?
	And we continue to expect -- even with that revenue decline that I mentioned we continue to expect that it will remain EPS accretive on a cumulative basis.
	And we're going to continue to work through that plan.
	"The reasons for reduced volume are very similar to our second quarter, with our outlet stores experiencing lower traffic, yet slightly higher conversion AUR."
	"And this process is – I've mentioned before, heard people talk about sort of that growth of getting to $5 billion."
	I want to make sure I have those numbers right?
	Today marks the 56th earnings call that I've participated on.
	"And so, this is effectively a brand-new growth market for us."
	"A growing number of blockbuster AAA titles have announced support for NVIDIA RTX ray tracing, including Call of Duty: Modern Warfare, Cyberpunk 2077, Watch Dogs: Legion and Wolfenstein: Youngblood."
	"Now, in May we have announced Einstein Analytics for financial services giving wealth advisors, managers and retail bankers that AI-powered insights they need to better serve customers and grow their book of business."
	"After the speaker presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session."
	"And so, those are things that I'm very pleased that the organization has taken to a new level this year, and that will play out over multiple years because a lot of it is if you design the vehicle for design for manufacturer ability, doing that now will play out in years, when we actually launched the vehicle be it two, three, four years from now."
	"And then just separately on mortgage, I think you had said that the originations should stay around this quarter's level into the fourth quarter."
	"We've done a few of those in the recent past as well and we often challenge ourselves around, but haven't done as much in terms of acquiring products."
	"We reduce reported fixed cost 9% year-to-date, as we right-sized the business for our market realities."
	"I'm joined by our Chairman and CEO, Larry Culp; and CFO, Jamie Miller."
	"So, we will be opportunistic, it's hard to obviously sites that at this time, and we will provide more detail in Q4."
	Let's dive right in.
	"However, as we said in the second quarter, the addition of Grid Solutions is further dilutive to our margin rate and we expect margins to be negative in 2019."
	"I'd like to focus more specifically on Q4 here, because the dynamics were a bit different."
	Cruise costs were $300 million for the quarter on track with approximately $1 billion communicated previously for the full year as we increased our headcount.
	"So, what's evolved in your thinking on Hamtramck since earlier in the year?"
	Your line is open.
	Operator Thank you.
	"And that helped immensely in addition to the work that we've done to free up the work and the administrative work of our partners in the stores so that they can engage with the customers, allowed them to have great interactions and we were able to see that in all dayparts."
	"And so those are near term – two near-term drivers, and I think it’s fair to say that both of them are quite large opportunities."
	But the intention is that we bring up right to on-boarding.
	"Well, that is Customer 360."
	"And more broadly, I think we set ourselves up to work through that during the course of the year."
	"Currently, it’s not that."
	We're working very hard and we're confident that we'll be able to complete the work in a manner that's timely and just as important up to the highest standards of professionalism and durability going forward.
	Roz Brewer Yes.
	And then I was referencing specifically the September number where we had roughly about 90% of all of our assets within the Henley group in the top half of our peer groups.
	We launched seven new models in third quarter with plans to launch five new and refresh models in the fourth quarter.
	Thanks.
	"And so, I don’t really know how one programming approach or a simple API is going to make 7 different type of weird things work together."
	And then we started media around September 22.
	"In South America, we continue to take steps to improve the business and protect our strong franchise while navigating FX and other macro challenges."
	"So, we stopped doing that and although we are working on remediation, there isn’t remediation yet in place, and so the effects of that will continue into Q4."
	Jen-Hsun Huang Yes.
	"Is whenever we see a tweet that might match a particular topic, we’ll put a prompt in that appended to it and you'll be able to hit a button and follow that topic."
	"With that, Kevin and I are happy to take your questions joined by Roz Brewer and John Culver, as Durga outlined at the top of our call."
	"GAAP and non-GAAP gross margins are expected to be 62% and 62.5%, respectively, plus or minus 50 basis points."
	And Power kind of has its own issues.
	There's some shift in timing between Q2 and Q4 this year.
	I’d now like to turn the call over to Mary Barra for her closing comments.
	You'll see that and feel that from this brand today and you'll continue to see that through 2020 going forward.
	Our supplies are separate from that and so we haven't seen any impact there.
	"The Onix hedge back follows next month and together, we believe these new vehicles will further strengthen our Chevy brand leadership and Onix position as the region's bestselling vehicle."
	"They had already moved to Salesforce and other services and -- but they had a gap in their Customer 360 and they wanted our ability to be able to connect Demandware into what we were doing so that they could have, be more competitive themselves."
	"This contact will not change that and how wide that is, is basically the comment that Mary made about productivity and other efficiencies offsetting the economics of the contract will certainly blame to that."
	Our next question comes from Jim Duffy with Stifel.
	Operator Thank you.
	"The ultimate affect of CECL will depend on the size and composition of our loan portfolio, the portfolio's credit quality and economic conditions at the time of adoption, as well as any refinements to our model's methodology and other key assumptions."
	"And with that, I'll hand over to Dave and he'll give you a little color on the margins."
	"LD as low, we will, try and maximize it will make sense that our most profitable and as we go forward."
	"The market's starting to recognize, but not all companies are the same."
	"[Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded."
	We saw 100 basis points of pressure due to tariffs and we continue frankly to have opportunities to execute on a number of projects better.
	Our first question comes from Alex Walvis with Goldman Sachs.
	"However with no additional vehicles in the pipeline for many weeks, our dealer inventories will be temporary leaner than we'd like."
	"And I mentioned that in my prepared comments as well about moving and creating room that we can actually begin to invest here in the fourth quarter, and especially as we turn the corner into 2020 that we're going to be even more aggressive where you'll finally – I guess gives the ability to see the benefits of the true go-to-market with strategy, supply chain, product, marketing, sales, all hitting and amplifying at the same time."
	Our next question comes from Patrick Davitt with Autonomous Research.
	"John McDonald Is it accurate for us to think that there are some elements of your inflation and expenses that are temporary, and helping you get to the best-in-class and satisfy your regulators, and then other parts that are permanent, like helping you stay best-in-class and keep satisfying regulators and some of them what you're building might get more efficient over time, and obviously a lot of it will stay?"
	"Is it clear to think that operating margin obviously is going up from the 40% that we're already seeing, because there's sounds like there'll be incremental savings of course, revenue dependent."
	We’re very pleased with the results.
	"And Capital ended with $60 billion of debt which was down $1 billion versus the prior quarter, primarily driven by debt maturities, offset by the intercompany loan repayment and fair value adjustments."
	"So, as I mentioned earlier on this call, the big opportunity once Wells Fargo both internally and from a regulatory perspective has chin the bar for being excellent at operational risk, compliance, and governance overall like that we believe that we are in credit risk and some other areas, is a massive simplification because as we go down this business process management path, we inventory and uncover the fact that we do just about everything we do in many different ways, and there is a huge opportunity to compress that to get more consistent."
	And that is also something that we'll need to be on the Intelliflo from also that trend will pick up there in our mind.
	So I'm encouraged by that.
	"It depends, I'd say in terms of wholesale pricing, wholesale banking, deposit pricing."
	Operator Thank you.
	In addition to that I think you're aware that we also placed Nitro machines in all of our U.S. company-operated stores as well.
	I'll add to – I do think our customers are driving us here because service defines their brand.
	"Or should we just expect that going forward in order to sustain the kind of service levels and customer and partner engagement you have, you're going to probably need to continue to invest at this pace?"
	"Just one last clarification I probably did, I think you covered before on that $10 billion mandate that you expect to find in the first half of the year."
	"We feel really good about how we think about the future of this brand, all the work and the foundation that we've done."
	Krista Bessinger Great.
	"So, it is something that we've been forecasting for quite a while at this point."
	Recall our raised outlook at the half for revenue EPS and free cash flow was largely due to better Power performance and lower restructuring and interest expense.
	We also had lower variable income and smaller positive impact from hedge ineffectiveness accounting results.
	"The number of notebooks that are able to game is only a few percent, so it’s extremely underexposed."
	But it looks like it’s probably going to be right around 50 basis point impact in the quarter.
	"The – in terms of changes to capital priority, there are no changes to the capitol priority."
	Please proceed with your question.
	Moving on to our guidance for fiscal 2020 starting with the key driver of our growth company-operated comp sales growth.
	"So I think we made a caveat, which is that’s based on sort of assets based on September AUM, as we saw a huge market up tick, there’s definitely some amount of variability in our incentive plans that would scale up, which is what we – you’d expect."
	Anything you'd talk about on country.
	"And so again they say hope is not a strategy, but you definitely are sensing some relief here."
	"And Q1, as you know, it tends to be a negative cash quarter because of our shutdown and the reversal after that."
	"So what we’ve seen is the seasonality was more around the delivery aspect of the business, in our digital business because we continue to see growth in our order ahead business."
	"I think at the speed at which we've been able to create the product platforms, the speed at which we've been able to bring those into the markets that is going to continue."
	Because with such good comps you talked about a little bit of the offset and the headwinds from some of these investments.
	"At the same time, we’re continuing to work on our business in Canada, which they have made tremendous progress to date."
	"That's across renewables, Aviation and Healthcare."
	"Mary Barra Thanks, Rocky, and good morning everybody, and thank you joining the call."
	But it's not just about technology.
	"Well, let me take those in reverse order, Deane."
	"You need the latency to be low, the amount of data that you’re streaming is continuous."
	Restructuring across our segments is running lower than anticipated.
	Edward Yruma Great.
	The next – let me move to the topic of expense synergies.
	"If we get this working capital benefit in 2020, is it the type of thing that you will actually be able to call out, so that we can start to understand what is the true because working capital wasn't one of the working, one of the benefits that we were expecting in 2020 and 2021, which likely will now be sort of core operation?"
	"Revenue in the quarter rose to $4 billion, up 22% in dollars and 23% constant currency and we ended the quarter with more than $25 billion in total remaining performance obligation."
	That occasional customer that we're introducing to Starbucks Rewards is coming in in the afternoons.
	Now we’ll have the Chipotlanes.
	Please go ahead.
	Thanks for taking my questions.
	"After we closed the deal, we were able to look deeper into the business and we started making significant progress on the integration."
	And field service is a big component of that.
	"I just wouldn’t want to put a number on whether it’s performing at or above from a sales standpoint, but the fact that it’s 50% above on digital it’s a very strong starting point."
	There is strong retail and institutional interest in the OFI products and the pipeline is warming.
	And a lot of that starts with leadership.
	"Then I won’t ask about electric core that either right now, we can say that for later."
	Or is it China?
	"Lastly, recall that, in 2018, we had approximately 40 basis points of negative gross margin impact due to our restructuring efforts."
	We know also that AI is the most powerful technology force of our time.
	Operator Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
	"Larry Culp Hey, Steve."
	"For the quarter, we reported 11% comparable restaurant sales growth that included nearly 7.5% transaction growth."
	"We are expecting our console business to remain strong in Q3 before the seasonal production slowdown in Q4 when console-related revenue is expected to be fairly minimal, similar to last year."
	Allen Parker So we had a couple quarters with small growth and then we shrunk again a little bit this quarter.
	Mary Barra Yes.
	"And then the third part of our business model is development agreements, otherwise known as NRE."
	"Jack Hartung Yes, it’s going to be about it – it’s very small in the third quarter, Sharon, because it was only in for a few weeks, but it’s going to be in the ballpark of 50 basis points."
	Is there anything you’re seeing in the U.S. that would account for that?
	"Can you elaborate a little bit more there on what was the market, what was the volume assumption or mix or price assumption within that, any other color on the China headwind, if I got that correctly for 2020 versus 2019?"
	Thanks so much Marc.
	"Douglas Anmuth Thank you, Ned."
	I was wondering if you could just talk about Europe a little bit.
	I think there's other ways to drive people into that digital business and then ultimately leverage that digital make line.
	Because it seems like it implies like a smaller Q4 than Q3.
	Alexandra Walvis That's helpful.
	"So I guess what am I missing and is it really just that the impact of the rate cuts, the lower long end, is that pronounced in terms of the impact on asset yield?"
	Please refer to our website at investor.starbucks.com to find the reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures referenced in today's call with their corresponding GAAP measures.
	"So there was an issue that came up in the middle of the third quarter that the New York Times reported about accounts close that we were being charged fees after they were closed, can you give some color on this issue when it was discovered, a number of customers, what's involved?"
	Operator Your next question comes from a line of Dan Levy with Credit Suisse.
	Operator This concludes Starbucks Coffee Company's Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2019 Conference Call.
	"In EMEA, revenue was up 9%, driven by continued growth in our wholesale and direct consumer businesses."
	And again our Starbucks Rewards customers we've seen acceleration there in that member growth of about 15% to roughly 18 million members.
	Going from multi-core CPUs to multi-node multi-core CPUs is an enormous challenge.
	"By product category, apparel revenue was up 1% to $986 million."
	Operator The next question will be from Chris O'Cull with Stifel.
	So let me talk a little bit about MAX first and then I'll talk about allowances and discounts on the payable that's built up there.
	The continued improvement in these scores reflects the transformative change we've been making to provide a better customer experience.
	Let me add two additional points to the operating margin equation for fiscal 2020.
	And can you tell us what’s expectation is for Q4 production at this point?
	"Your, the revised guidance just and then you add backs sort of this strike impact seems to be fix it 60 to 80 maybe the lower end of to reflect original guidance."
	Please go ahead.
	"And more broadly, even beyond this quarter, how do you view that leverage point going forward?"
	"My name is Brandon, and I'll be your conference coordinator today."
	Just want to get your perspective.
	"Those are things like our outlook for Q4 and the full year of 2019, and our operational plans and strategies."
	Thanks.
	Thank you.
	And just assuming a “normalized” market with so called $0.07 for equities?
	Now 10% of our sales mix is coming from that with seven points from Starbucks Delivers and three for mobile order for pickup.
	"As we've discussed before, delivery transactions are on the margin dilutive to our total margin."
	"Approximately $200 million in revenue from the acquisition of Salesforce.org and approximately $25 million in revenue from Click Software, excluding these acquired businesses we expect top line revenue growth of 20% to 21% year-over-year."
	Thanks.
	"The number of software engineers we have in the company is in the thousands, and we have the benefit of having built on top of this architecture for over 1.5 decades."
	This excludes the impact of the insurance premium deficiency test.
	"So again, it's relatively short-term, but we're starting to see that trend in the right direction for the same reasons that we talked about earlier."
	Please proceed with your question.
	"And then our operators, to their credit have done job in executing and the feedback we’re getting from consumers, both new users and existing consumers, is they love the product."
	Kevin Johnson That's great.
	One quick follow-up.
	"We currently expect our 2019 expenses to be approximately $53 billion, which is at the top end of our $52 to $53 billion target range."
	"I think like all firms, there's a portion of our workforce in that area that is on contract."
	Inferencing continues to see strong momentum.
	Let alone those inside the company to improve results and invest in growth we see considerable value that is within our power to unlock.
	But in terms of those things that we can control so that this can be a positive margin business in line with others in the renewables space particularly in wind I think we over the next several years should be able to demonstrate not only better margins but in turn better cash performance.
	"And just the comments that we're being made on accretion after buyback, just seem to be interesting that they were made at all."
	Please go ahead.
	"And based on year-to-date performance, we are increasing Capital's 2019 earnings guidance to negative $300 million to negative $100 million from negative $800 million to negative $500 million."
	"John McDonald Okay, thanks."
	Randy Konik Great.
	"Core segment costs in the third year -- sorry third quarter were $500 million, unfavorable $400 million year-over-year primarily due to net loss of $280 million from Lyft and PSA investments in the third quarter of this year compared to a $170 million gain from our PSA investment in the third quarter of last year."
	And thanks for everyone for joining us today.
	And I think you see it showing up.
	Our policy is to guide conservatively communicating expected outcomes that we have a high degree of confidence we can deliver.
	"Wondering on kind of looking out, obviously, the second half margin progress, which we thought wasn't quite going to be a strong as the first half may act otherwise, but I wonder if you look out to 2020 and kind of give us a sense of the puts and takes, I assume, pricing is going to remain around 2%."
	This was driven by 11% net new store growth over the past 12 months and 3% comp sales growth.
	"Adam Jonas Thanks, Mary."
	Glenn Schorr Cool.
	So it's definitely something we're continuing to contemplate because it just presents a tremendous opportunity for us.
	They're literally going through training right now.
	And all those technologies you mentioned the challenges that we hear in the market is these customers are excited about these new technologies and what they could do for their customer experience.
	As we continue to evolve that and looked at the full range of what we can do there to really maintain our truck leadership position and grow that into battery electric trucks.
	"Itay Michaeli And just second Dhivya, on the 2020 puts and takes I think you mentioned lower industry volume as a headwind."
	"Second, we are confident in our ability to deliver non-GAAP operating income growth of 8% to 10% in fiscal 2020, underpinned by revenue growth of 6% to 8% demonstrating modest margin expansion even as we continue to invest for the long term."
	Thank you very much for taking the questions.
	And then we're going to continue to drive meaningful innovation within the Global Coffee Alliance.
	"We continue to have a lot of work ahead of us, but the unwavering focus of our team members on serving our customers are also working tirelessly to transform Wells Fargo has enabled us to make substantial progress toward our goals over the last six months."
	Operator Thank you.
	"As I understand it, I think our commitments for construction financing are actually up in the third quarter, which will come through as funded loans."
	Hopefully this gives you some color.
	"And these 4,000, 4,500 start-ups around the world is really driving consumption of that."
	And we will continue to keep you updated in terms of the potential upside on that number.
	Orders of $8.8 billion were down 4% reported and down 2% organically.
	We may also discuss non-GAAP financial measures during today's call.
	Any details around that would be helpful.
	"Smart retail, smart warehouses, smart factories, smart cities, smart airports, you just make a list of those kind of things, basically locations where there is a lot of activity, where safety or cost or large amount of materials is passing through, you could just imagine the applications."
	"Now, moving on to the other regions."
	This is Patrik.
	Krista Bessinger Thank you.
	It can’t be reproduced or transcribed without our prior written consent.
	"Obviously, with Einstein bots enabled customers to deploy frontline support using AI."
	"So Power, continued stabilization."
	"Allen Parker Vivek, thank you for the question, I guess what I would say is that at this point, there's really not any further information that we can give you with regard to that situation."
	"Jamie Miller So, Julian, I'll talk a little bit about Power Services and maybe I'll touch on some of the top line as well as some of the margin elements of it, and I'll break it into the three pieces."
	"Also, during this call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures."
	"John Shrewsberry Well, I think we're imagining having a little bit higher level of MBS premium amortization."
	"closely with our regulatory agencies ever since then, we're at the point now where we're coming to some conclusions about what happened, but it would frankly be premature at this point for me to really give you any information in that regard, and we're taking a look at what happened."
	"Patrick Davitt Okay, great."
	And we're particularly pleased to announce that we're bringing on our expense synergies well ahead of schedule and exceeding our initial target of $475 million.
	"I think that is going to help us improve quality, improve delivery."
	"We look at them as a validation of where we've been investing and that 20% or so headcount growth that we've talked about the 20% percent expense growth for this year, those are going against things like rebuilding the ad server, they are going against coming out with a new version of MAP, things that should help us address the product related issues that came up over the course of the quarter."
	"Kevin Johnson Roz, why don't you go ahead and take that for us?"
	"We also continue to expand margins, which were up 90 basis points organically, driven by both volume and cost productivity."
	That just tells you something about demand.
	"John, we’ve saved another few million dollars during the quarter, but it was offset by other things including, some of the carne asada pressure that we saw in the last three weeks of the month."
	Please proceed with your question.
	Can you just confirm that it was all working capital and there's not any other sort of one time drivers for the cash flow because we're trying to think about the reversal next year?
	"I think we should -- maybe it was last quarter, one of the things that we mentioned is that we're building a control environment for the company as it exists today, and there is just through process consolidation and process reengineering, there's an opportunity for the company to be a whole lot more simplified as we roll forward, and both the cost of delivery and the cost of overseeing that from a risk and control perspective would be expected to be more efficient."
	Let me call out a few other items related to the various cloud growth rates in the quarter.
	The tradeoffs are something that we always look at when we look at this opportunity to serve the customer.
	Marty Flanagan Yes.
	Our vision for bringing companies and their customers together and it will be a huge growth engine for us over the next decade.
	"This conference call will include forward-looking statements, which are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from these statements."
	"Brian Niccol Yes, of course."
	Thank you for taking the questions.
	Mark Hawkins Sure.
	"Patrik Frisk Hi, Randy."
	"Kevin Plank Thanks, Lance."
	"And following up on Power Portfolio, maybe Larry, is there any kind of time frame around which you think about just an outright exit from pieces of it versus continuously trying to improve what you have?"
	"But we want to make sure as we go through the 2020 budget process here in November that every good opportunity, every good project gets a full hearing because we really want to play the long game here and set ourselves up for better margins and better cash."
	One of the great things about having an auction based service is that things adjust naturally.
	Operator Your next question will come from the line of Saul Martinez with UBS.
	"If not, it may be found on our Investor Relations website at ir.chipotle.com."
	"I think we are technology roadmaps that we have for sale development, we’re going to well position that and with the equipments we’ve made for the better are next generation or architecture which we call the BEV3."
	"Clearly, the U.S. market is the most established business."
	Airbnb turned to Salesforce to power its global messaging program.
	So that's in progress too.
	"And just watching the evolution, the sophistication really begin to build in our footwear capability is something that's frankly taken us 15 years to get to this point, but we're ready to run and we understand what it can mean as we continue to unlock footwear, having the right product, the right time, the right price, we believe that we are truly going to be a player there and take this billion plus dollar business that does something really important."
	"I think what we have now is where we were built by many forces of personality and forces of energy and forces of will to underlie and underpin that with really the world's most dedicated team and processes and systems that can keep up with it and do it on a repeatable basis, is a position we're in now."
	"General Electric Company (NYSE:GE) Q3 2019 Earnings Conference Call October 30, 2019 8:00 AM ET EPS of $0.15 beats by $0.03 Revenue of $23.36B (-21.01% Y/Y) misses by $-5.66B  Company Participants Steve Winoker - Vice President of Investor Communications Larry Culp - Chairman & Chief Executive Officer Jamie Miller - Chief Financial Officer Conference Call Participants Andrew Obin - Bank of America Steve Tusa - JPMorgan Nigel Coe - Wolfe Research Deane Dray - RBC Capital Markets Scott Davis - Melius Research Jeff Sprague - Vertical Research Andrew Kaplowitz - Citi Julian Mitchell - Barclays Nicole DeBlase - Deutsche Bank John Inch - Gordon Haskett Josh Pokrzywinski - Morgan Stanley Operator Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric Third Quarter 2019 Earnings Conference Call."
	"Earlier this week, we announced our intent to cease selling Chevrolet vehicles in Indonesia over the coming quarters."
	"But to allow more time for Q&A, we're going to shorten our prepared remarks and really get the questions quite quickly."
	"And then just along the lines of costs into 2020, I know you had previously suggested that costs could be flat in 2020, is that still something you're thinking or now with Charlie coming on board, do we sort of just sort of wait till he comes on and take a look at things, and then give him complete discretion on what the cost outlook looks like?"
	"And some of that depends on the workforce, depend on how many people take the special attrition program, depends on the industry as we go forward, so I'm not going to put projections that far out."
	"And so, as we learn more we'll share that with you."
	"Our international revenue growth continued in the quarter, super strong with EMEA growing at 30% ,APAC growing at 27% year-over-year both in constant currency, AXA , one of the largest insurance companies in the world is on a journey to a global 360 degree view of every customer and in the quarter they made a number of strategic investments across several divisions including deploying service filed to give their insurance agents the complete view of every customer enabling them to have smarter or personalized conversation."
	Operator Your next question comes from the line of John Ivankoe with JPMorgan.
	It's obviously been a real source of strength through you over the last few quarters.
	"There's quite strong demand for global equities and its various flavors in a lot of markets outside of the U.S. And so we're seeing that, I think ETFs and the traction that Loren kind of mentioned with this when we're going to hopefully see in the first quarter and when it farms in solutions."
	Roz Brewer Great.
	"As we close out 2019, while there are some changes to the top line that Patrik and Dave will take you through, our gross margin is stronger than what we planned for just 90 days ago."
	Operator The last question today comes from Dennis Geiger with UBS.
	"Matt O'Connor Okay, thank you."
	Walter Pritchard Hi.
	I will highlight the drivers of the linked quarter growth in loans starting on page nine.
	"But, Patrik, if you want to add more to or Kevin?"
	Thanks.
	"Are you guys taking any pricing, especially with the tariffs coming forward?"
	And I think it’s just time will tell whether one programming approach could fit 7 different types of processors when no time in history has it ever happened.
	So I can quickly swipe to it to see it.
	We're rolling out across for platforms.
	We have a labor agreement that preserves our competitiveness and flexibility and we expect to offset economics over the contract period with productivity.
	"Now let’s talk about our marketing efforts, which have and will continue to be an important enabler of our growth."
	"Before I turn the call over to Marc, let me provide a brief comment regarding Tableau."
	I'm optimistic that our continued efforts to transform Wells Fargo and the fundamental strengths of our franchise will continue to position us well for success.
	It’s a small number of amounts of products or assets in general.
	Yet portfolio investment returns remained very robust demonstrating Starbucks' resonance with China's growing middle class.
	Lance Allega Thank you and good morning everyone joining us for Under Armour's third quarter 2019 results earnings call.
	I expect that the over 100 laptops that we have RTX designed – RTX GPUs designed into is going to contribute our growth.
	Larry Culp Jamie thanks.
	"And just a follow-up and last question, Chipotle is clearly getting stronger every day."
	And that has turned out to be really great for them and augment our vision of what CRM is and also being able to execute our Customer 360 vision.
	"So, we're continuing to drive on all those."
	"A second example is specific to MAP, where we typically will share data with measurement partners who will then share with advertisers, so that they can see the effectiveness of their campaigns, not just on Twitter, but across platforms."
	"From a channel perspective, DTC does continue to drive growth in both retail and e-commerce which has been great."
	But there's also opportunity without selling one more ad to just put better copy in the ads that exist today.
	"Greg McGreevey And really – again, just to put some, how do we see it and what have we done?"
	"Itay Michaeli So just first question with inventory now being leaner, can you talk about opportunities you might have in Q4 and beyond to optimize for mix and pricing?"
	"To what extent, guys, do you view that as a pull forward of benefits versus reflective of a new foundation upon which you can continue to see improvement?"
	And I stared at this thing all weekend.
	"Steve Winoker Thanks, Brandon."
	"Mary Barra Well, I think, when we look at our comparison that Harbour or I guess, if Oliver Wyman does from productivity."
	Glenn Schorr And the models are that a product of Jemstep being… Greg McGreevey It's really the solutions team that's doing them sort of building a combination of our active and factor capabilities and in consultation with the CIO and what they are looking for their client base.
	"Patrik Frisk Hi, Alex."
	"Mark Hawkins So, why don't I take that and then I think Bret will want to weigh-in as well from the product strategy perspective."
	"So just really quick of the 5.5, it looks like 2.8 was worse than just the operations."
	"Dhivya Suryadevara Sure, sure."
	Excluding Salesforce.org total revenue grew 20% in dollars and 21% in constant currency.
	We now have 40 – over 40 ISV tools that was announced at SIGGRAPH that have accelerated ray tracing and video editing.
	"On the next page, we drilled down on this a little more."
	"Adjusted Industrial profit margins were 10% in the quarter, up 150 basis points reported and 130 basis points organically."
	We still have more than half of our video ads being served at longer than 15 seconds.
	"In the fourth quarter, we returned nearly $3 billion to shareholders through a combination of share repurchases and dividends bringing our full year shareholder capital returns to $12 billion."
	"From the outside, our goal was to reach an agreement that works for our shareholders, our employees and our company as we confirmed the realities of our rapidly transforming industry."
	There's no other like one time item or whatever else that's out there but the profit impact that you talked about us that sounds a little understated but it's potentially because of tax rate.
	"It's still a level that's too high, and as we roll forward and think about what efficient looks like, there's no doubt that that category coming down, substantially will be high on the list of sources in a more efficient state to be operating in."
	"But I think I've been pretty consistent with this one, which is the key for us to continue to have great unit growth is to have great unit economics."
	"And so the way we think about AI is in waves, if you will."
	I don't -- delivery Starbucks Delivers in the U.S. still is very small.
	"And so we do believe that, I mean, those numbers are going to fund."
	"But it does require that, that’s how the math works, and that's how we're forecasted right now."
	"And then new customers and existing customers frequenting our stores, total transactions in the market grew at solid double-digit for another quarter which is great results by the team."
	"Therefore, we are revising our 2019 EPS-diluted adjusted in automotive, adjusted automotive free cash flow guidance."
	"And whether it was, as Patrik mentioned, the Patriots and the Ravens going at it last night here in our backyard and watching the excellence of a Tom Brady who we continue to help drive and innovate with athletes like that in that perspective or if it's relative teenagers like Soto for the nationals, winning the World Series last week."