Twitter, Inc. (NYSE:TWTR) Q3 2019 Results Earnings Conference Call October 24, 2019 8:00 AM ET EPS of $0.17 misses by $-0.03 Revenue of $823.72M (8.65% Y/Y) misses by $-51.49M  Company Participants Krista Bessinger - Vice President, Investor Relations Jack Dorsey - Chief Executive Officer Ned Segal - Chief Financial Officer Conference Call Participants Douglas Anmuth - JPMorgan Lloyd Walmsley - Deutsche Bank Heath Terry - Goldman Sachs Ross Sandler - Barclays Justin Post - Merrill Lynch Eric Sheridan - UBS Youssef Squali - SunTrust Mark Mahaney - RBC Brian Nowak - Morgan Stanley Operator Good day, ladies and gentlemen.
And welcome to the Twitter Third Quarter 2019 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host, Krista Bessinger, Vice President, Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Krista Bessinger Great.
Thank you.
Hi, everyone.
And thanks for joining our Q3 earnings conference call.
We have Jack and Ned with us today.
Before they start, I wanted to remind everyone of the format of our call.
We published a shareholder letter on our Investor Relations website and with the SEC about an hour ago and hope everyone had a chance to read it.
Because the letter has a lot of detail, we’ll keep our opening remarks brief and then dive right into your questions.
We’ll also take questions asked on Twitter, so please tweet us @TwitterIR using the #TWTR.
Also during this call we will make forward-looking statements.
Those are things like our outlook for Q4 and the full year of 2019, and our operational plans and strategies.
Our actual results could differ materially from those contemplated by our forward-looking statements and you should not consider our reported results as an indication of future performance.
We’re making these forward-looking statements based on information available to us as of today, and we disclaim any duty to update them later unless required by law.
Please take a look at our filings with the SEC, especially in the Risk Factors section, in our most recent 10-K and in our 10-Qs for a discussion of the factors that could cause our results to differ.
Also, during this call, we will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
We have reconciled those to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in our shareholder letter.
These non-GAAP measures are not intended to be a substitute for our GAAP results.
And finally, this call in its entirety is being webcast from our Investor Relations website and an audio replay will be available on Twitter and on our website in a few hours.
And with that, I’d like to turn it over to Jack.
Jack Dorsey Good morning.
Thanks for joining our third quarter call.
A few highlights for me and Ned before we get to your questions.
We’ve talked for quite some time about how our focus on increasing relevance and ease-of-use will compound into sustainable growth.
Today, we’re proud to share that nearly half of the 19 million daily customers we have added since the fourth quarter of 2018 can be attributed to the steady refinement of Twitter.
This also fueled our results this quarter of 17% year-over-year increase of daily usage to bring us to 145 million mDAU.
This is an incredibly strong foundation to build upon.
The steady refinement is just one part of our development portfolio.
In parallel, we are rethinking the fundamentals of how Twitter works in order to better address the problems we’re seeing.
One example of this is our work on public conversation health.
At the beginning of this year, we resolved to break from only acting on reports of abuse and harassment, to proactively identifying tweets and conduct that violates our terms of service.
Today, we’ve crossed another threshold.
Over half of the enforcement actions we take in any given week for violating our abuse rules is now proactively identified and verified by our agents before a victim or bystander has to report the violation.
We will continue to refine this work to steadily increase that percentage.
This is important because it removes the burden of reporting from victims and paired with a much more robust appeals process increases our correctness of enforcement.
Another example of rethinking the fundamentals is where we have taken on some notable experiments this quarter, which might lead to far greater outcomes.
In health, we launched the ability for folks to moderate replies to their tweets by hiding them from the main conversation view, while still allowing moderated tweets to be seen behind the button press.
This is now live in the US, Japan and Canada.
Our Global rollout is forthcoming.
More broadly, we have evidence to show that people see Twitter as an interest network and spend a bunch of time focused on finding and following accounts that match their interest.
From on-boarding to daily use, we have opportunity to make this much easier.
To address this, we went back to a feature only Twitter experts make use of lists.
This quarter we made less easier to create, and most importantly, easier to consume.
We’ve added the ability to pin lists directly to your home timeline, enabling a fast switch between your home timeline and list of accounts you want to keep on - keep up with, but don't directly follow.
Expect lists creation to get more powerful capabilities over time.
We’re also experimenting with following topics right from your timeline.
In option to follow a topic will be appended to relevant tweets.
A tweet about the Golden State Warriors for instance, would now have a prompt to follow the topic, which allows us to include all relevant tweets matching the topic, without having to follow the various accounts that produce them.
Of course, you can un-follow any time and this is an area we will continue to add more capabilities around.
Finally, and Ned will explain more on this, revenue.
Unfortunately, we had some missteps and bugs in our map ads, admits greater than expected seasonality in July and August.
Despite that, we saw strong September results and good advertiser momentum.
Our goal in rebuilding our core add and map technology stacks was to address exactly these sorts of issues and increase engineering agility.
Because of this work, we are much better equipped to identify and fix issues we come across today than we were just 1 to 2 years ago.
Still painful, but no longer existential as it was in our past.
I believe our company is in its strongest position ever, we are learning faster, prioritizing better, shipping more and hiring people who are out of reach before.
All of this has increased our confidence, we can meet the larger challenges facing us in our industry, including misleading information and then ever evolving regulatory environment.
We’re approaching all these problems in a deeply principled way and commit to addressing them openly in a way that benefits all not just Twitter.
Thank you.
And with that, I’ll pass it over to Ned.
Ned Segal Thanks, Jack.
Before we get into Q&A, I want to highlight a few things which are in the letter, but merit mentioning at the outset of the call.
In aggregate, issues relating to our revenue products reduced the year-over-year growth by three or more points in Q3.
We discovered and took steps to remediate bugs that largely affected our legacy MAP product.
These bugs affected our ability to target ads and share data with measurement and add partners.
We also discovered that certain personalization and data settings were not operating as expected.
These issues were in our control and we will work to do better.
We also experienced greater than expected add seasonality that began in July and continued until August.
We believe our core value propositions of launching something new and connecting with what’s happening on Twitter continue to resonate with advertisers and a slower business over this summer was in part due to a relatively lighter slate of big events and launches in July and August compared to 2018.
One example of this is comparing the Men’s World Cup in 2018 with the Women’s World Cup in 2019.
We were pleased ad revenue growth rebounded to double-digits globally in September with the most pronounced recovery in the United States, advertiser sentiment remained strong.
Looking ahead, while we are taking steps to remediate the product issues we described, we expect them to continue to weigh on the overall performance of our ads business in the near term.
Specifically, we expect the moderate performance in MAP and issues discussed in our personalization and data settings will likely result in four or more points of reduced year-over-year growth for total revenue in Q4 from three or more points of impact in Q3, reflecting a full quarter impact in Q4 versus only a partial quarter impact in Q3.
This is incorporated into our guidance.
As in prior quarters, our guidance reflects the most likely range of outcomes based on our current visibility.
We have considered the rebound in our ads business in September, the strength of our bookings and the organic events and product and service launches that have already happened or that were expected in Q4, along with the lingering headwinds we expect from the previously discussed product issues.
We remain confident in the fundamental strength of Twitter and believe we are focused on the right priorities across the company.
In fact, the issues we saw this quarter reinforced our confidence in our strategy, both in consumer and ads.
We're especially excited to see such strong product driven mDAU growth year-to-date and continue to see a tremendous opportunity in front of us to deliver increasing value for advertisers and to get the whole world to use Twitter.
With that, we’re ready to take your questions.
Operator?
Question-and-Answer Session Operator [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Douglas Anmuth of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Douglas Anmuth Thanks for taking the questions.
I have two.
First just Ned on MAP, could you just help us understand a little bit more about kind of when you learned of the issues around MAP, around targeting and then sharing data and then the degree to which they’ve been fixed at this point and how that kind of informs the four points of impact that you’re talking about for 4Q?
And then secondly, it looks like you’re on track to do nearly the 20% OpEx outlook that you’ve discussed for this year, and I know it's early.
But do you expect the same big four investment priorities next year and how do you think about OpEx growth for 2020?
Thanks.
Ned Segal Okay.
Thanks, Doug.
I'll take both.
Jack can add anything afterwards, if it makes sense.
First on the question on the product related issues.
So these came up over the course of the quarter and it wasn’t one particular day, there were more than one of these things.
Let me give you a couple of examples, which can help them come to life.
The first is, we asked people a series of questions when we put them – before we put you into a timeline when you are new to Twitter.
Among the questions, we asked our - if we can use your device settings to figure out the best ads to show you.
It turns out that that setting wasn’t working as expected and we were using device settings even if people had asked us not to do so.
So when we discovered that, when we tweeted about it which we often do to try to be transparent with people when things aren’t working as expected.
And two, we turned off the setting, so that it would work as expected.
That has a negative impact to revenue, because it’s one less input you’ve got, when you are figuring out which ads to show people.
So instead of getting a partial quarter impact, you get a full quarter impact in Q4.
A second example is specific to MAP, where we typically will share data with measurement partners who will then share with advertisers, so that they can see the effectiveness of their campaigns, not just on Twitter, but across platforms.
And another one of the questions that we ask people before we put them into a timeline, is if we can share their data with measurement partners.
That setting also was not working as expected and we were passing on data, which we have not intended to.
So, we stopped doing that and although we are working on remediation, there isn’t remediation yet in place, and so the effects of that will continue into Q4.
As you can imagine, the remediation would be sharing aggregated data, as opposed to personalized data when people have asked us not to share their data.
So those are two good examples which hopefully helped the issues come to life a little bit, but this wasn't one thing, there were things that we found out over the course of the quarter and then when you get a full quarter’s impact of them even if you’re working to remediate there can be negative impact to revenue.
Secondly, you asked about expenses and although it’s too early to talk about 2020, I just point back to some of the comments in the letter and in our opening remarks where we look at the things that we saw this quarter, both the DAU growth and the issues on the revenue product side and they really reinforce our strategy.
We are really pleased with our hiring this quarter, retention was better than it has been and our ability to attract people to Twitter to come work here was better than it has been.
So we continue to believe we can grow head count 20% or more and that expenses will grow about 20% as we’ve talked about in the past.
So, no real changes there and as we think about next year, we think about a similar set of priorities from a big picture perspective, but it’s too early to lay out our specific plans or think about how that will all play out.
But do keep in mind that we hope that all the people we’ve hired this year will stay with us next year.
We hope that we will give merit increases to people who get promoted and cost of living increases and so on and so there is a natural increase to expenses, just based on decisions that have already been made.
Douglas Anmuth Thank you, Ned.
Krista Bessinger Thank you.
Next question please.
Operator Your next question comes from the line of Lloyd Walmsley of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Lloyd Walmsley Thanks, Two if I can.
First, just when we looked at the – you know, I think Ned said nearly half of - or Jack Sorry, you said nearly half of the user growth came from product refinements.
Can you just give us a sense for where the other half, If I understood that correctly came from?
And then when you look at the acceleration in DAU growth, do you have any sense for how much of that is coming from the better on-boarding specifically, you know, you started to talk about that something you’re investing in, but I think it was more of a 2020 focus.
So do you still feel like it's early innings in your ability to drive product improvement faster on-boarding in DAU growth?
Ned Segal Thanks, Lloyd.
Let me start and I’ll turn it to Jack on the on-boarding question.
So we typically talk about three levers when we think about ways that we can bring people to Twitter, give them a great experience and help it become part of their daily lives.
The first one is product improvements.
You mentioned Jack's comments.
Well, that was almost half of the improvement over a longer period of time.
When we make product improvements they compound over time, the people who are new to Twitter this quarter benefited from all the product work that we’ve done over the last many years and watching that compound, watching the pace of our innovation improve and watching how we continue to drive better relevance, whether it’s around notifications or the home timeline or on-boarding, it's great to see the real impact that that’s having.
The second one are the events that are happening all around the world, that drive people to the service.
Now if we don't give them a good experience when they get there, they are going to leave and may not come back or may not come back for some time.
So these are opportunities that are at best for us, but events are - they continue to be a driver when we think about ways that we’re adding people to the service.
The third one, which is smaller, but is still an important lever is marketing, the marketing is a great way to bring people to service, but again it all comes back to the product, because if we don’t give people a good experience when they get there, they may not come back as frequently as we’d like.
Let me turn it to Jack on on-boarding.
Jack Dorsey So, Lloyd on on-boarding.
As you know, we’ve been talking about on-boarding for quite some time and I would say that we’ve had a lot of fits and starts in the approach there.
One of the things that gives us a lot of confidence is again going back to my opening remarks, we do believe Twitter works best when people see it more, as an interest network, they're able to quickly find and follow their interest and right now if we do a lot of work to find and follow related accounts.
So we have been both testing and also deploying tools around topics and interest to make it much easier to get into your interest faster without having to do all the work to find and follow those related accounts.
So right now, they’re in app all of those experiments.
But the intention is that we bring up right to on-boarding.
So if you do show up into the app or in the website expressing a particular interest like basketball or deep learning or cryptocurrency, you will find, say immediately a list or be able to pick from a topic that will give you a rich set of accounts and also tweets immediately into your timeline, which we think will help pretty dramatically.
So we’re still in the phase of testing and experimenting a lot with interest in topics.
And then as we get confidence around that we’ll bring into every surface area of the app and the surface.
Lloyd Walmsley Thank you.
Krista Bessinger Thank you.
Next question please.
Operator Your next question comes from the line of Heath Terry of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Heath Terry Great.
Thanks, Jack.
I’m curious, maybe more from a big picture level, how you’re thinking about Twitter's access to data.
I mean to the extent that the access to these two pieces of data had such a major impact on your ability to monetize inventory this quarter does - I know data and privacy is a bit of a toxic topic at this point.
But does Twitter have the access to the data that it needs to be able to do the kind of targeting and measurement that advertisers, particularly direct response advertisers in the kind of longer tail advertisers that you need for monetization expect for you to be able to grow revenue in pace with the kind of 17% user growth that you’ve got and 23% engagement growth that you’ve got?
Jack Dorsey Yeah.
Heath.
So first and foremost, we have led a lot of our work on the consumer side and how we think about our revenue products with number one, making sure that people have visibility into what data we’re using and also control over it.
So that's step one and all that is easily accessible within settings and we continue to work to refine our controls and our visibility and transparency to make clear the value exchange people are giving us as we utilize their data.
This doesn't represent a lack of access as these represents bugs and these are issues that we identified quickly and are working quick to fix.
And I will say that I have a lot more confidence in our abilities in our team today then looking back just two years ago, we have a lot more agility because of all the hard work we’ve done to rebuild our core ad stack.
Our focus on MAP is much more intense, and something that we intend to get right.
A lot of – you know, we - we have seen bugs in the past, dealing with the tech that we’ve had and the ad stack in particular, and the most important thing is where we built agility and we can move fast to fix them.
So that’s to what I'm looking for, and this is not access to data problem, this is bugs that we discovered in our remediating.
Heath Terry Thank you.
Krista Bessinger Great.
Next question please.
Operator Our next question comes from the line of Ross Sandler of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Ross Sandler Great.
Thanks, guys.
Just a question on going back to the four point headwind in the fourth quarter.
So I know we’re not going to talk about specific guidance for 2020 here.
But would it be fair to assume that some of these technical issues that are causing the headwinds are going to persist in to next year?
And you mentioned in the letter that the US had recovered in September.
So, was that from sorting out some of the issues or was that just a better event month and hence the recovery?
That's my first question.
And then the second question is you are seeing in a very strong international DAU growth.
So can you talk about which regions of the world of that upside is coming from.
And along those lines, your international ad revenue is trailing in US, a little bit.
So is that’s because the bugs are causing deceleration in places like Japan or is it that the users are coming in country [ph] but that may not offer as higher monetization potential.
Any color there on international would be helpful?
Thanks.
Jack Dorsey Thanks, Ross.
I counted four questions, but we can call it two and I’ll take a crack at them.
So on the four points of impact to Q4, the four or more points that we talked about, there will be some bleed over from those into future periods.
It’s too early to quantify at both because we’re working hard on remediation, also because we’re not giving guidance for 2020 yet, but there will be some continued impact from these things.
The second is the recovery that we saw in September, really wasn’t from remediation, this was - that there was, if you think about our two things that we talked about advertisers, launching new products and services and connecting of what’s happening, those along with the always-on advertising that you'll often see when you come to Twitter, they just rebounded nicely to double-digits, led by the United States, but not just in the United States in September.
That’s what gives us the comfort that the issues that we saw in July and August were more pronounced seasonality than we had anticipated.
Even when we incorporate the ongoing product issues that continued into September.
The fact that we saw that double-digit growth that gave us solace.
Then your next set of questions was around international, so a couple of things to point out there.
The first is, we saw a real breadth in terms of DAU growth, we grew DAU double-digits in all 10 of our top 10 markets and we were thrilled that the improvements that we’re bringing to the service are being felt by people all over the world, people who are new to Twitter, people who have used Twitter in the past, but have use it less frequently, both continue to be real opportunities in areas where we’ve had success.
The last part of your second question was around, Japan, an international more broadly from a revenue perspective.
Just to give you a few numbers there.
So international revenue grew 7% year-over-year, but inside of that is our second largest market Japan, where I think some context would help.
So we were down 1% year-over-year in Japan.
Remember last year we grew 44% year-over-year in the third quarter.
We built up a really big business that we’re very proud of In Japan, both with lots of people who use the service, great relationships with the largest agencies and having really connected with the advertisers with MAP and with video ads.
Now, MAP is a bigger part of our business there than it is in other geographies.
So it was more impacted by these MAP issues that other geographies were, so that down 1% is both - up against a tough comp and also more pronounced in its impact from MAP.
We continue to be really excited about the opportunity in Japan.
I’m actually headed there, to see some of our partners this weekend.
We have the Olympics coming up in 2020 and we continue to work hard to bring out an improved version of MAP, although the impact will be felt gradually.
We do expect that impact to begin in 2020 in Japan ought to be one of the primary beneficiaries.
Krista Bessinger Great.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Operator Our next question comes from the line of Justin Post of Merrill Lynch, please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Justin Post Great.
I’ll ask two.
I guess, first, are you seeing improvement in churn with your user base, is that one of the metrics that is helping drive your DAU growth?
And then second, we hear from advertisers that their spend bounces around month-to-month, I know it's event driven.
But what can the company do to get more always-on advertisers on the platform and be more consistent on your monthly growth and make that more consist each quarter?
Thank you.
Jack Dorsey Hey.
Thanks, Justin.
We haven't really talked about churn.
But when we look at what drove DAU, it was lots of things, including that people who have used the service in the past are - but maybe hadn't made it a part of their daily lives are using it even more number one.
And two, the people who are new to the service are finding benefit from it faster, because we are surfacing accounts or topics to them faster, because the home timeline has increased relevance, because we’re giving them better notifications and making it easier to follow up conversations, these things are all driving benefit.
But I wouldn't point to any one particular- underlying metric when we think was driving DAU growth because we’re seeing benefit from many of them.
Secondly, we are seeing lots of always-on advertising.
When you open your timeline, you will see ads from companies who were there all the time connecting with the events of that day, connecting with the people who are on Twitter where they believe can benefit from their services or products are already do.
But you would also see that when they want to launch a new product or service, when they want to connect with the big event, whether it’s the Women's World Cup or the end of the baseball season that we are a terrific place for them to do that and we’ve been a big beneficiary of that is those messages have really resonated.
When you add up all of those product launches, when you add up all of those events across different types of topics, across geographies, you end up with what's happening on Twitter every day that our opportunities for advertisers to connect with their customers on the service.
Justin Post Thank you.
Krista Bessinger Great.
Thank you.
And we'll take the next question from Twitter.
The question comes from the account of @BitcoinMunger.
And the question is when will you enable topic following, it would not only improve the user experience, but also improve on-boarding and retaining of new users?
Ned Segal Thanks for the question BitcoinMunger.
As I - as I mentioned in my opening remarks, we have been experimenting with both interest and topics, more broadly.
One example of this is making better use of list, a lot of people construct list around a topical area, so it includes a number of accounts that might fit a particular topic.
So for instance I follow a crypto list that has all the folks within crypto and I can pin that right to the top of my home timeline.
So I can quickly swipe to it to see it.
The other thing that we’re doing and experimenting with right now on iOS, it's a small rollout so far, but we intend to expand it soon.
Is whenever we see a tweet that might match a particular topic, we’ll put a prompt in that appended to it and you'll be able to hit a button and follow that topic.
So in this case, you’d be able to follow bitcoin if you saw Bitcoin related tweet.
And then more tweets around the Bitcoin topic will appear in your timeline and you can go to your DASH and unfollow that topic at any point.
So we're in our early test right now, but we do think this is a very strong feature and approach for us and I think we'll add a ton of capability and strength to the service.
Krista Bessinger Thanks, Jack.
Operator, we'll take the next question please.
Operator Our next question comes from line of Eric Sheridan of UBS, please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Eric Sheridan Thanks so much.
Maybe two with respect to the advertising metrics.
As you discovered some of the product issues through the quarter, did you reduce the amount of inventory in the auction that could go against MAP as an ad product or did you see people adjust their bidding and the prices dropped on MAP adds as people became aware of the problem?
And then you highlighted the dynamic between MAP pricing and video pricing, but if video becomes a bigger portion of the mix and people get more familiarity with it.
Is video pricing also increasing on a sequential or year-on-year basis?
What is some of the dynamics around video pricing in the auction?
Thanks so much, guys.
Ned Segal Well.
Thanks, Eric.
I’ll take those.
So we didn’t make any changes.
One of the great things about having an auction based service is that things adjust naturally.
And so if there is less demand from one type of ad format or fewer inputs for advertisers across different formats, they'll use other inputs that bid the right - the price that makes sense for them.
And sometimes things move from one format to another and other times advertisers pause and wait for things to change before they come back or they take their campaign elsewhere.
If you step back and look at the metrics that we’ve share, you see our engagements increased about 23% that continues to grow greater than DAU which tells you that we’re selling better formats that we’re selling more relevant ads or putting more relevant ads in front of people, so pleased about that.
And then cost for ad engagement was down 12%.
That largely reflects a mix shift from MAP to video, really would think more about that than I would about changes around for like pricing.
When you think about ad formats and opportunities around these just generally, there is still lots of opportunity for us to continue to improve relevance, to continue to come out with better ad formats and improved versions of our existing ad formats like MAP.
But there's also opportunity without selling one more ad to just put better copy in the ads that exist today.
We still have more than half of our video ads being served at longer than 15 seconds.
As you’d imagine on a service like Twitter, the completion rates for video ads that are 6 seconds are much better, they are much more effective for the advertiser, they’re much more compelling for the person watching them that knows that are 15 seconds or longer.
That’s a great example of something we can do that doesn't require selling one more ad but can help everybody and certainly would improve ad engagements and all the associated metrics.
Since you're probably wondering and we've talked about it a bit CPMs have been up for the last period of time here because of the product related issues that we’ve talked about, it should be no surprise that CPMs were actually down this quarter.
Krista Bessinger Thank you.
Next question please.
Operator Our next question comes from the line of Youssef Squali of SunTrust.
Please go ahead, your line is open.
Youssef Squali Great, thank you.
Two questions from me please.
First to Ned can you speak to the cost elements from the bug issue?
Were there any additional costs incurred in Q3, what kind of guidance is baked into Q4 and as we look at 2020, what kind of an impact do you think we should also bake in [ph]  And maybe Jack, as we look at 2020 as a big political spend year, can you remind us again how big was it in 2016 and are you putting any restrictions on kind of political ads as you start getting them I guess pretty soon?
Thanks.
Ned Segal Okay.
So the first question around cost from the bugs.
There - I wouldn't say that we're more costs from the bugs.
The biggest impact from a resourcing perspective, when things like this come up is that we end up shifting where people are spending their time, sometimes where we work on remediation when we may have preferred to work on other things.
So that can have a different kind of impact.
But when we think about these product related issues that we really feel we are in our control.
We look at them as a validation of where we've been investing and that 20% or so headcount growth that we've talked about the 20% percent expense growth for this year, those are going against things like rebuilding the ad server, they are going against coming out with a new version of MAP, things that should help us address the product related issues that came up over the course of the quarter.
Jack Dorsey So 2020 elections and the integrity of the conversations around them is our first priority within health and how we think about conversation on health.
So we are paying a lot of attention to all the dynamics at play, specifically looking at misinformation and misleading information and how that affects, haven't broken out what we did with 2016, but we do – we have put a lot of focus on our transparency sooner, making sure that people have visibility into how people and who is spending for political, both candidate and also issue ads.
On the service, we intend to continue to look for opportunities to increase our transparency and then look broadly at the role of political advertising on the service and where we can improve it.
We will of course update you all with any decisions or findings, we make, but this remains our top priority.
Ned Segal Hey, Youssef.
A couple of things to add, just to give you some financial to go with Jack's comments.
We talked already, its out there about the 2018 mid-terms and political ads were less than $3 million for us.
We try to be really principled about the decisions that we make around advertising, whether it's political or otherwise.
And those numbers just give you a sense for the impact and how from one election.
Of course there are elections happening on Twitter all the time, all over the world and so we get the opportunity to think through to improve our policies to improve how we give a great experience to people, not just in the United States, but all over the world, all the time.
Youssef Squali Okay.
Thank you.
Krista Bessinger Thank you.
Next question please.
Operator Our next question comes from the line of Mark Mahaney of RBC.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Mark Mahaney Thanks.
A couple of quick questions.
Could you quantify the impact in the revenue missed this quarter between the product mishaps in seasonality, what percentage of the shortfall was due to one versus the other.
Secondly, MAP products -like what percentage of ad revenue would you think that they account for.
And third, the seasonality doesn't really seem like it seasonality, it seems like it's more there is a new term for it or we need to come up with one like eventuality or something, you just didn't have a large number of traffic driving or interest driving events and therefore, you had a bit of a shortfall, maybe that's just part of Twitter going forwards, if you have big events, World Cup or political elections or whatever you have, you're going to have more traffic.
Am I thinking about that right?
It seems like you maybe there were some events that you thought were going to happen that didn't happen.
Just help us think through the dependency of the business, the ads business, the ad revenue business on having key events, it seems pretty straightforward, that seems like the issue rather than seasonality?
Ned Segal Thanks, Mark.
So, couple of things there.
First on the impact from the couple of things that we pointed out, so the three or more points that we mentioned that was all from the product related issues that we went through.
Seasonality - more pronounced seasonality than we had anticipated in July and August would be on top of that.
We haven't broken out MAP as a percentage of the business.
It varies from quarter-to-quarter, from geography-to-geography, from the year-to-year.
It is not an area where we've seen as much strength in the recent past, as we continue to work to come out with a new version of it, we think that that will give us, not just a better opportunity around mobile application promotion, but also around more direct response advertising more broadly because the same work in helping people launch campaigns faster, around doing better targeting, around more compelling formats and ultimately fewer impressions to realize their objectives are the same things that should help with more down the funnel advertising.
Then, your second question was around the new term that you came up with, I don't think I think about it as just about the events that happened.
This is a combination of things where sometimes it's one event comps against another one like the Men's World Cup in '18 versus the Women's World Cup in '19.
They're terrific examples of great events that bring people to the service, to talk about what's happening, to see the goals right after they are scored, there are great advertising opportunities as well.
But when we just add up the things that happened this July and August and when we compare them to last year and when we think about how we expected them to play out and how they ended up playing out.
They ended up just not being where we had expected to be.
So I'm not sure I read much more into it than that and the fact that our September rebounded to double-digits with particular strength in the United States with a similar set of product related issues that gives us confidence in that.
Hope that helps.
Krista Bessinger Thank you.
And I will take the next question from Twitter, it comes from the Twitter account of Scott Kessler.
And it's about uses of cash, he says, can you address uses of cash going forward.
I'm noting that you're remaining debt matures in 2021 and 2024.
So what about other potential uses for your healthy balance sheet like M&A, there have been no material acquisition since 2015 and/or stock purchases.
Jack Dorsey Thanks, Scott.
So we did generate about $167 million of cash this quarter but we also repaid a convert and that $935 million that we repaid.
We repaid it largely or completely from a financing that we did last year to pre-fund this maturity, which is a little more than $1 billion.
When we think about uses of cash, we think about being able to run the business through any environment.
We think about and often challenge ourselves around the optimal use in terms of benefiting our shareholders.
So we always look at other ways that we should be using our cash.
We also think about acquisitions, but when we think about acquisitions, we think about acquiring people and teams.
We've done nine of those this year, just to give you a sense, it's a terrific way for us to add great teams and great people to the company who can further our purpose.
We think about adding terrific technology where we can acquire something faster than we can build it.
We've done a few of those in the recent past as well and we often challenge ourselves around, but haven't done as much in terms of acquiring products.
We see so much opportunity to get the rest of the world to use Twitter that we have to carefully balance anything that we see from an acquisition perspective against the opportunities in front of us to continue to improve the service to drive the DAU growth that we've been delivering, to continue to improve the ad formats and ad products so that we can deliver great outcomes for advertisers.
So no changes to our thinking around cash although the balance has moved around a bit based on the repayment and the cash generation.
Krista Bessinger Thanks, Ned.
And operator, we'll take the next question please.
Operator Our next question comes from the line of Brian Nowak of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Brian Nowak Thanks for taking my questions.
I have two.
Just, Ned, to kind of go back to that question on the auction market and sort of the changes that you saw, given that you talked about how just sort of it naturally adjusted and advertiser demand adjusted.
How should we think about the steps, you have to take in order to improve the overall auction bidding density, whether it is fixing specific bugs or getting different sets of data as you try to kind of work your way through the headwind into 2020 and how long will that take?
And then the second one, I know in the past, you talked about efforts to bring on more advertisers and DR advertising, just talk us through some of the one or two key steps still to take to bring on more advertisers and really crack into the DR budgets?
Thanks.
Jack Dorsey Thanks, Brian.
So on the first question around auction dynamics and what we can do.
So, first one you step back, we still feel like we're more demand constrained and supply constrained when we look across the service, across surface areas, across geographies, across times of year.
So continuing to make the case to advertisers, we're in $125 to $130 billion digital ads market that grows 20% a year, that they should launch more new products and services and invest more against those launches on Twitter that they should do more to connect with what's happening on Twitter.
One way to think about it is if you go back to the Super Bowl, we had 30 of the 38 advertisers from the Super Bowl on Twitter at the same time, but there are 8 to whom we still need to make the case, that they ought to be on Twitter.
That along with continuing to improve relevance, better formats and moving down the funnel in terms of the types of advertising that is available, those are all things that ought to help us from the auction dynamics perspective.
Think about MAP, if we can help people realize their objectives with fewer impressions that leaves more impressions for other things without changing how many ads we show to somebody or anything like that.
Your next question, I answered a little bit of already, but what can we do around direct response and bringing more advertisers to the service.
So our MAP work should lead to more direct response type opportunities over time.
And in terms of bringing more advertisers to the service, we have a nice business where we help smaller advertisers in reaching their customers on Twitter.
But that's not an area that we have prioritized improvements around in the recent past.
It's a place where we know that there is millions of small businesses throughout the service, where we could help them more in reaching our customers on Twitter.
But we've got to do the engineering work and make the case to them better than we are today.
And right now, we've chosen to prioritize other things first.
Brian Nowak Great.
Thanks.
Krista Bessinger Thank you, operator.
I think we are pretty much out of time.
So I think that will be our last question.
Thank you.
Jack Dorsey Okay.
Thanks for joining us.
We appreciate your interest in Twitter and we look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
We'll report our Q4 earnings and the full year on February 6, before the market opens.
We'll see you all on Twitter.
Operator Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
General Electric Company (NYSE:GE) Q3 2019 Earnings Conference Call October 30, 2019 8:00 AM ET EPS of $0.15 beats by $0.03 Revenue of $23.36B (-21.01% Y/Y) misses by $-5.66B  Company Participants Steve Winoker - Vice President of Investor Communications Larry Culp - Chairman & Chief Executive Officer Jamie Miller - Chief Financial Officer Conference Call Participants Andrew Obin - Bank of America Steve Tusa - JPMorgan Nigel Coe - Wolfe Research Deane Dray - RBC Capital Markets Scott Davis - Melius Research Jeff Sprague - Vertical Research Andrew Kaplowitz - Citi Julian Mitchell - Barclays Nicole DeBlase - Deutsche Bank John Inch - Gordon Haskett Josh Pokrzywinski - Morgan Stanley Operator Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric Third Quarter 2019 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode.
My name is Brandon, and I'll be your conference coordinator today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Steve Winoker, Vice President of Investor Communications.
Please proceed.
Steve Winoker Thanks, Brandon.
Good morning and welcome to GE's third quarter 2019 earnings call.
I'm joined by our Chairman and CEO, Larry Culp; and CFO, Jamie Miller.
Before we start, I'd like to remind you that the press release presentation and 10-Q are available on our website.
Note that some of the statements we're making are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today.
As described in our SEC filings and on our website, those elements can change as the world changes.
Please note that we'll be hosting a Healthcare Investor Day on Monday December 2 in conjunction with the RSNA conference in Chicago.
Additionally, we provided the upcoming earnings dates in the appendix.
With that, I'll hand the call over to Larry.
Larry Culp Steve, thanks.
Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us.
I'll start off with some thoughts on our performance and our strategic priorities, then Jamie will cover the quarter in detail before I wrap with our updated outlook.
Overall, our third quarter results reflect one more quarter's worth of progress in our multi-year transformation of GE.
Orders were down 1% organically year-over-year due to tough comps at Power and lower LEAP orders at Aviation in part due to the 737 MAX grounding.
We ended with backlog of $386 billion, up 14% year-over-year.
This comprises equipment of $80 billion, up 4%; and services of $306 billion, up 17%.
We delivered strong Industrial segment organic revenue growth of 7%, with growth across all businesses, except Power, where Gas Power was up but Power portfolio was down.
We also delivered adjusted Industrial operating margin expansion of 130 basis points, driven by Healthcare and better controls at Power relative to last year.
While margins are down 130 basis points organically year-to-date, we continue to expect to hit our full year margin expansion target.
Industrial free cash flow turned positive, generating $650 million in the quarter, though down $500 million from a year ago.
This is ahead of our expectations, largely driven by continued Power stabilization and better-than-expected progress on the supply chain finance transition.
We're raising our Industrial free cash flow outlook again today, which I'll cover in more detail later.
There were a few significant developments in the quarter, including a number of deleveraging actions that I'll talk to shortly.
We ceded majority control of Baker Hughes, which resulted in a pre-tax loss of $8.7 billion.
We completed our annual insurance premium deficiency test, resulting in a pre-tax charge of $1 billion, mostly driven by the low interest rate environment.
And finally, we completed our annual goodwill test, recognizing a non-cash impairment charge of $740 million at hydro, a renewable energy business we acquired from Alstom.
So a number of steps to mitigate risk and clean up the GE portfolio.
But make no mistake, we still have work to do.
At Power, we're focused on daily management, improving transactional services and cost-out initiatives.
At Renewable Energy, we're focused on the significant delivery ramp, turning around hydro and grid and overall better project execution.
Across these two businesses as well as corporate, we're investing in restructuring and our expected cost savings remain on track.
We're also moving the center of gravity from corporate to the businesses, a notable cultural shift for GE.
Moving to slide three.
We're doing what we said we would do.
In 2019, we've been hyper-focused on our two strategic priorities.
First, we're improving GE's financial position and we've taken a number of actions on this front in the quarter.
At Industrial, we sold a portion of our Baker Hughes stake for approximately $3 billion of proceeds and we exited Wabtec, bringing in another $1.6 billion.
Year-to-date, we've collected $9 billion of proceeds.
And at Capital we announced the PK AirFinance sale.
We started putting that cash to work, with a $5 billion Industrial debt tender and we recently announced important but difficult changes to our U.S. pension plan that will reduce our Industrial net debt by $4 billion to $6 billion.
Second, we're running our businesses better, with an eye toward unlocking the value that clearly exists in GE's portfolio.
On that front, at Power, we continue to see signs of stabilization due to better project discipline and execution.
Specifically, at Gas Power organic, revenue was up 3% and we hit a major milestone with our hundredth HA turbine order in the quarter.
We reduce reported fixed cost 9% year-to-date, as we right-sized the business for our market realities.
At Renewable Energy, we're well positioned to capitalize on the energy transition.
Orders and revenues were up double digits again, as we delivered approximately 1,400 turbines and repower kits in the quarter.
We're seeing strength in international orders and order pricing continues to improve.
We signed the first commercial deployment of Haliade-X and our largest Cypress order to-date.
At Aviation, we have a strong global franchise with an installed base of nearly 70,000 engines.
Service revenues in the quarter were up 7% and we expanded our win rate on aircraft engine selection to 62% on the A320neo.
While we're managing the portfolio renewal, we're still on track to deliver 20% segment margins this year.
And CFM is working closely with Boeing and our carrier customers to ensure the safe return to service of the 737 MAX.
In Healthcare, we're operating at the centre of precision health.
We're driving new innovation, enabling our customers to improve patient and operational outcomes.
For example, we received the industry's first FDA clearance to embed AI apps on a medical device for triage in our critical care suite this quarter.
We also continue to expand margins, which were up 90 basis points organically, driven by both volume and cost productivity.
I'd like to take a moment here to mention GE Digital.
This business remains within the GE family of growing an important P&L in its own right within corporate, which will serve customers in Power Grid, Oil & Gas and select manufacturing industries.
Under the new leadership of Pat Byrne, the team is refining its focus to leverage GE's first-mover investments in industrial software and analytics to be an important contributor to our customers' digital futures.
During the quarter, a couple of changes in the way we're operating really began to take root.
And while their impact is not yet visible to investors, I'm optimistic that it will be over time.
First, our lean transformation is underway.
One of the most pleasant surprises for me has been that once I began to talk more about lean, especially after our leadership event in Greenville in June, a flood of people deep in the organization began reaching out, raising their hands, looking to help.
I was at our Lynn Massachusetts military engine plant recently and heard operators following an Action Work-Out talk passionately about how lean triggers cultural change and greater accountability.
In a different lean event recently at our MR production facility in Florence, South Carolina, teams identified $50 million of potential savings in just four days.
And lean goes well beyond manufacturing.
GECAS for example is using lean to reduce turnaround time, when transitioning an airplane from one lessor to another, which will save our customers money and improve our on-time delivery.
The opportunities at GE are endless, which is why the second change, our strategy reviews, is so important.
This quarter, we held sessions with each of our businesses designed to answer two fundamental questions.
What game are we playing?
And how do we win?
These were multiday sessions, not flybys, with robust debates about strategy and priorities, aimed at growing our topline, expanding margins, generating cash and delivering innovation and customer satisfaction for our customers.
Over time, our lean Action Work-Outs will be targeted to our strategic objectives and will channel the interest, the enthusiasm and skill that exist within these walls right now, toward driving improved and sustainable results.
So, in summary, the hard work continues.
And from the inside, I'm seeing the improvements I wanted to see when we started on this path a year ago, improvements that will yield long-term results for all of GE stakeholders.
Jamie, I'll turn it over to you.
Jamie Miller Thank you, Larry.
Starting with the third quarter summary, orders were $22.5 billion, down 5% reported and down 1% organically, with strength in Renewable Energy offset by declines in Power and Aviation.
Equipment orders were down 4% organically, while services were up 3%.
Consolidated revenue was $23.4 billion flat to prior year, with Industrial segment revenues up 3% reported and 7% organically.
The biggest drivers of growth were once again the Renewable Energy onshore wind ramp along with Aviation equipment.
Year-to-date, Industrial segment revenues are up 6% organically.
Adjusted Industrial profit margins were 10% in the quarter, up 150 basis points reported and 130 basis points organically.
The majority of margin accretion was driven by the non-repeat of about $800 million of charges we took in Gas Power last year.
We saw organic expansion in Healthcare, but declines in Renewable Energy and Aviation due to negative mix.
Net earnings per share was $1.08 loss.
As Larry mentioned, we sold 144 million shares of Baker Hughes.
And as a result, we no longer hold a majority stake in the company.
Beginning this quarter, its historical results are now reported in discontinued operations for all periods.
Upon deconsolidations, we recognize an after-tax loss of $8.2 billion or $0.94.
We also elected to measure our remaining Baker Hughes investment at fair value, which is recognized in earnings.
Continuing EPS was negative $0.15 and adjusted EPS was positive $0.15.
Walking from continuing EPS, we had $0.02 of losses, primarily from the unrealized mark-to-market of our remaining Baker Hughes investment and our Wabtec stake exit.
On restructuring and other items, we incurred $0.03 of charges related to restructuring and M&A costs across our segments principally at corporate.
And next, we incurred a $0.02 charge for the $5 billion debt tender, which reduces pre-tax interest expense by $150 million per year, generating positive economics.
Non-operating pension and other benefit plans were $0.05 in the quarter.
We also had two more developments, which Larry mentioned earlier.
We took an $0.08 non-cash goodwill impairment charge related to Hydro, eliminating all goodwill associated with that business.
And as disclosed in our last 10-Q Hydro continues to experience order declines and increased project costs, which resulted in a downward revision of the business's current and projected financial profile.
We booked a $0.09 after-tax charge related to our annual insurance premium deficiency test, largely driven by a significant decline in market interest rates.
I'll cover this in more detail with GE Capital later Excluding these items, adjusted earnings per share was $0.15 in the third quarter.
Moving to cash.
Industrial free cash flow was $650 million for the quarter and $500 million lower than prior year.
Income, depreciation and amortization totaled $1 billion, up $600 million after adjusting for the non-cash goodwill impairment both in 2019 and 2018.
Working capital was negative $1.8 billion primarily driven by accounts receivable, which was impacted by the timing of collections from Boeing related to the 737 MAX and a reduction in certain receivable monetization programs including continued runoff of long-term factoring and the decision to discontinue and shrink higher cost or inefficient factoring programs.
Progress payments were a usage of gas as expected, driven by timing of project execution and payment milestones primarily related to onshore wind and Gas Power projects.
Contract assets were a source of cash of $200 million as services billings exceeded revenue.
Other CFOA was $1.7 billion, which includes the Baker Hughes GE dividend lower-than-expected Aviation allowance and discount payments in 2019 and non-cash items impacting income.
We also spent about $500 million in growth CapEx.
Year-to-date Industrial free cash flow was negative $1.6 billion, down $1.3 billion due to many of the same pressures we saw in the second quarter including the onshore wind ramp execution and 737 MAX grounding.
Overall through the first three quarters, our cash generation is running ahead of our prior year/full year outlook.
Larry will speak more to the dynamics here when he addresses our outlook.
Lastly, our Healthcare business continues to perform well.
Moving to liquidity on slide 6.
We ended the second quarter with about $17 billion of Industrial cash.
In the third quarter, Industrial free cash flow was $650 million and we paid approximately $100 million in dividends.
We received $1.6 billion of cash net of taxes and fees related to the Wabtec exit and $3 billion from Baker Hughes.
The impact from the debt tender and other paydowns was $5.5 billion and all other items were $100 million.
In line with our ongoing goal to reduce our reliance on short-term funding, average short-term funding was $4.3 billion this quarter, which was flat to the second quarter and down from $11.6 billion in the third quarter of 2018.
Peak intra-quarter short-term funding was $4.9 billion down from $13.7 billion last year and also flat to the second quarter.
We could potentially see some fluctuation in these borrowing levels in subsequent quarters depending on further disposition timing.
Overall, our liquidity position remains strong with $17 billion in Industrial cash and we continued to have access to $35 billion in bank lines.
Next on leverage.
We are improving our financial position and expect to make significant progress toward our Industrial leverage goal of less than 2.5 times net debt-to-EBITDA by the end of 2020.
Third quarter net debt was $49 billion, down from $55 billion at year-end 2018, primarily driven by the $5 billion debt tender.
This number excludes increases in the pension deficit due to lower interest rates as accounting rules only require an annual re-measurement of that liability at year-end.
However, at the end of the third quarter we estimate that the pre-tax pension deficit would increase by about $6 billion driven by discount rate changes offset by asset return performance and the recently announced pension freeze would partially offset this by about $1 billion.
As we've previously said, we have substantial sources to delever and derisk our balance sheet while the low interest rate environment increases amounts required to delever under our original plan, we had planned conservatively and believe that we are on track to achieve our goals inclusive of the impact of lower interest rates on our net debt.
We are putting those sources to work through the deleveraging actions, which we prioritize based on risk mitigation, economics, liquidity and achieving our optimal capital structure.
It's important to note that while our external Industrial leverage target is net debt-to-EBITDA we also evaluate other measures internally including gross debt-to-EBITDA, and we will ultimately size our deleveraging actions across a range of measures.
You can see our current planned deleveraging actions on the right.
Beyond the $5 billion debt tender completed, we announced pre-funding the GE pension plan by about $4 billion to $5 billion meeting the estimated minimum ERISA funding requirements for 2021 and 2022 and this will be completed in 2020.
In addition, we plan to pay down the full $14 billion of GE Capital intercompany debt of which we paid $500 billion in the quarter and approximately $1 billion of maturing long-term debt.
As it relates to the pension lump sum offering in freeze, we may realized $1 billion to $3 billion of non-cash pension deficit reduction depending on the lump sum's participating population and the take-up rate.
We continue to evaluate actions in light of the pension deficit pressure to ensure that we reduced our net debt to less than $30 billion as planned while maintaining sound liquidity.
Walking through our segments on slide 8 starting with Power.
Orders of $3.9 billion were down 30% reported and down 20% organically.
Power Portfolio orders were down 54% reported and down 34% organically, largely driven by steam power system down 49% due to a non-repeat of a large nuclear equipment supply contract.
Gas Power orders were down 17% reported and 14% organically with equipment down 32% reported, driven by order timing from the first half and services down 6% reported.
We booked 3.1 gigawatts of orders for 17 gas turbines including five H units and two aeroderivative units and Gas Power services transactional orders were up across parts and repairs for multi-outage deals.
Contractual services were down and upgrades were down in large part due to deal closures timing.
Overall, Power backlog closed at $87 billion, which was about flat sequentially and up 4% organically when adjusting for dispositions.
Gas Power represents $72 billion of the total Power segment backlog.
Revenue of $3.9 billion was down 14% reported and down 3% organically due to Power Portfolio, which was down 37% reported and 15% organically largely driven by steam.
Gas Power revenue was up 2% reported and 3% organically.
We shipped 12 gas turbines including five H units and three aeroderivative units in the quarter versus 11 gas turbines in the prior year, which included five H units and two aeroderivative units.
Gas Power services revenues were down 14% with contractual services down due to outage volume and mix, transactional revenues down on lower F-class outages and upgrades, which were down significantly driven by tough comps and deal timing of convertible upgrade volume.
Operating profit was negative $144 million, up $532 million with segment margins of negative 4%.
The operating profit improvement is largely due to the non-repeat of Gas Power equipment charges as we continue to stabilize operations, partially offset by lower volume and services productivity.
At Gas Power, fixed costs were down 12% in the quarter, as we progress on our two-year $800 million fixed cost reduction target.
In all, Power is a multiyear turnaround but we're making progress.
Power remains on track to deliver its 2019 outlook of organic revenues down high single-digits and positive segment margins.
Next on Renewable Energy.
Orders of $5 billion were up 30% reported and up 32% organically with particular strength in international orders, up 94%.
Equipment orders were up 66%, while services orders were down 42%.
Orders were mainly driven by onshore, up 19% including $500 million of Cypress orders and the offshore EDF deal of $700 million.
New order pricing continues to improve reaffirming the positive trend we've observed over 2019.
Overall, backlog of $27 billion was up 6% sequentially and up 19% year-over-year.
Revenues of $4.4 billion were up 13% reported and 15% organically, mainly driven by onshore volume up 27%.
Equipment revenue was up 6% and services revenue was up 62%.
Total turbines and repower kit deliveries were approximately 1,400 in the quarter.
Operating profit of negative $98 million was down $240 million with segment margins of negative 2%.
There was a significant impact year-over-year due to higher losses from consolidating the legacy Alstom JVs and from legacy contracts.
We also faced headwinds from pricing, tariffs, project execution and increased R&D investment, partially offset by cost productivity and strong volume.
Onshore wind was once again profitable in the quarter and year-to-date.
We remain on track to deliver double-digit revenue growth in the full year with a solid plan on deliveries.
However, as we said in the second quarter, the addition of Grid Solutions is further dilutive to our margin rate and we expect margins to be negative in 2019.
Moving to Aviation.
Orders of $8.8 billion were down 4% reported and down 2% organically.
Equipment orders were down 27% driven by commercial engine orders, down 54% due to LEAP engine orders down 90%.
Services orders were up 15%.
Backlog closed at $253 billion, up 4% sequentially and 20% year-over-year, driven primarily by long-term service agreements.
Revenue of $8.1 billion was up 8% reported and up 10% organically.
Equipment revenue was up 11%, driven by the delivery of 455 LEAP units, up 152 from last year, partially offset by CFM56 units down 75%.
We shipped 714 commercial engines this quarter, the same as the third quarter of 2018.
Services revenue was up 7% driven by mix and commercial services shop visits and total military sales were up 18%, driven by engine unit shipments, up 16% and growth and development programs.
Operating profit of $1.7 billion was up 3% reported on improved price and higher volume offset by negative mix.
Segment margins of 21.2% contracted by 110 basis points reported and as in prior quarters this was driven primarily by the CFM to LEAP transition, a 230 basis point drag and Passport engine shipments an 80 basis point drag in the quarter.
This was partially offset by military growth and commercial aftermarket strength.
In 2019, we're on track to deliver high single-digit organic revenue growth and segment margins of approximately 20%.
Looking at Healthcare.
Orders of $5.1 billion were up 1% reported and 2% organically.
Healthcare equipment orders were flat reported, and up 1% organically, while services were up 3% reported and 4% organically.
On a product line basis Healthcare System orders were flat organically, driven by growth in Life Care Solutions, ultrasound and services offset by imaging largely due to China market dynamics and longer sales cycles on larger deals in the U.S. Life Sciences orders were up 10% organically.
Overall backlog of $18 billion was down 1% sequentially, but up 5% year-over-year.
Revenue of $4.9 billion was up 5% reported and organically.
Healthcare Systems revenue was up 3% organically with strong growth in Japan and Latin America, partially offset by pressure in China and the Middle East.
Life Sciences was up 14% organically.
Operating profit of $974 million was up 13% reported with segment margins of 19.8%, up 150 basis points reported and 90 basis points organically.
Operating profit growth was driven by volume cost and productivity, partially offset by inflation, tariffs and R&D.
Cost productivity was driven by continued execution on design engineering, sourcing and services productivity.
Healthcare is on track to deliver its 2019 outlook, which includes biopharma of mid single-digit organic revenue growth and margin expansion.
Moving to GE Capital.
Adjusted continuing operations generated earnings of $123 million in the quarter.
This excludes the impact of the insurance premium deficiency test.
Compared to prior year, continuing operations net income was favorable by $104 million, driven primarily by lower impairments and lower excess interest cost, partially offset by lower gains.
Capital ended the quarter with a $109 billion of assets excluding liquidity, which is about flat versus prior quarter.
Insurance assets increased due to unrealized gains driven by interest rate decreases and were offset by asset reductions at the WCS and from EFS asset sales.
We completed $2 billion of Capital asset reductions in the quarter, totaling $3.6 billion year-to-date and we're more than halfway through the $10 billion full year target with the signing of PK AirFinance.
We finished the quarter with $11.8 billion of liquidity, down $800 million from the prior quarter, primarily driven by debt maturities, partially offset by operations and disposition proceeds.
We still plan to contribute $4 billion in total to GE Capital in 2019, including $2.5 billion in the fourth quarter.
And Capital ended with $60 billion of debt which was down $1 billion versus the prior quarter, primarily driven by debt maturities, offset by the intercompany loan repayment and fair value adjustments.
Discontinued operations generated a net loss of $18 million, which was unfavorable year-over-year by $58 million, primarily driven by a prior year investment security gain on sale and an indemnity reserve release.
As we look out to the fourth quarter, we expect lower earnings from Capital sequentially, driven by preferred dividend payments and lower asset sale gains.
And based on year-to-date performance, we are increasing Capital's 2019 earnings guidance to negative $300 million to negative $100 million from negative $800 million to negative $500 million.
On the right-hand side of Slide 9, we provide an update on our run-off insurance portfolio.
And as we've said before, insurance is a long-tailed, multi-decade portfolio that our experienced leadership team is actively managing with oversight from our reconstituted Audit Committee, including Leslie Seidman as the Chair.
We completed the premium deficiency test in the quarter which resulted in an approximate $1 billion pretax charge or $800 million after-tax earnings.
This was primarily driven by lower interest rates which resulted in a lower discount rate and adversely impacted our margin by $1.3 billion and partially offset by projected premium rate increases of $300 million.
In line with our normal practice, we will complete our statutory cash flow test in the first quarter of 2020 and similar to the GAAP test we expect an impact from the discount rate that will be based on year-end rates.
In summary, we continue to focus on reducing risk across this portfolio.
Moving to corporate, adjusted operating costs were $303 million in the quarter, up year-over-year, primarily due to timing of higher-profit eliminations related to spare engine sales to GECAS in anticipation of the MAX return to service.
Higher costs also were associated with existing environmental health and safety matters and the non-repeat of gains associated with the sale of certain intangible assets in the third quarter of 2018.
We are increasing our 2019 outlook for adjusted corporate costs to negative $1.5 billion to $1.7 billion, largely driven by the higher profit eliminations and increased EH&S reserves.
Excluding these items, corporate costs would be in line with our original outlook of $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion.
Gross corporate costs continued to decrease as people processes and accountability are further pushed down to the segments.
The corporate team is making steady progress on gross headcount reductions eliminating approximately 7,000 in 2019.
And of these about 2,000 of those are real cost out most of which is felt in the segments and the remainder was pushed to the segments.
We continue to push control and accountability down to the businesses.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Larry.
Larry Culp Jamie thanks.
Moving on to Slide 11, I'll first refer back that the broader dynamics discussed in our original 2019 outlook.
Top of mind is Power execution and returning the business to profitability while working through legacy items.
At Renewable Energy we're focused on delivering through the PTC cycle while managing a number of legacy projects and nonoperational items.
At Aviation and Healthcare, we see continued strength in both franchises, yet we're intensely focused on running them even better.
Recall our raised outlook at the half for revenue EPS and free cash flow was largely due to better Power performance and lower restructuring and interest expense.
As mentioned earlier, we've deconsolidated Baker Hughes.
This lowers our EPS forecast by $0.05 and our restructuring expense forecast by about $200 million with no material change to our outlook for organic growth margin expansion or Industrial free cash flow.
To help you digest the changes from our original guidance to our guidance today, we've included a detailed walk in the appendix.
Reflecting on three quarters of results, many of the trends highlighted in the second quarter still hold.
We see evidence of Power stabilizing, but we're working through a number of nonoperational headwinds there.
Aviation is negatively impacted by the MAX grounding and that has largely been offset by timing-related items.
Restructuring across our segments is running lower than anticipated.
Healthcare is performing well.
As it pertains to earnings, we're keeping our EPS outlook at $0.55 to $0.65 even after adjusting for Baker Hughes which is largely due to GE Capital earnings.
For Industrial free cash flow, we're raising our full year outlook to breakeven to positive $2 billion.
Compared to our original outlook, we've seen Power stabilize, lower restructuring, and interest expense, and better management of headwinds.
Since the midyear point, we've progressed on the supply chain finance transition, which has had a minimal impact and Aviation is stronger than expected due to lower allowance and discount payments this year and higher service billings, which has largely offset the year-to-date impact of approximately $1 billion from the 737 MAX grounding.
On restructuring our expected cost-out benefits remain unchanged, but cash and expense will be lower due to a mix of timing on certain projects attrition versus severance that allows us to reduce costs and executing some projects at lower cost than initially planned.
Next up in our operating rhythm is finalizing our 2020 budgets where we'll continue to evaluate additional restructuring opportunities, but only where the economics make sense.
All-in-all, we're encouraged by our progress in this reset year.
But it's still early in the multiyear transformation of GE.
We have more work to do to deliver our desired level of sustainable and growing free cash flow.
Moving to Slide 12, this year we're executing against our priorities and our lean transformation is gaining traction.
As we've discussed, we're raising our Industrial free cash flow guidance again.
For the remainder of the year, our watch items are largely the same; sustain macro volatility, trade and tariffs, the 737s MAX, and interest rates.
To close, I'd like to share some thoughts now being a year into this job.
GE is a company with vast industrial strength due to our team, our technology and our global network.
In the last four quarters alone, our Industrial segment organic revenue growth has averaged 6%.
Our global installed base allows us to be in close daily contact with customers helping them solve important problems that they are facing, services which turn drive half of our revenue.
This positions us well especially against the backdrop of an uncertain global economy.
When we think about the relationships GE enjoys around the world which are really thanks to the hard work of our team, the leading nature of our technologies, and our uniquely rich history and brand combined with the opportunities we see in the marketplace.
Let alone those inside the company to improve results and invest in growth we see considerable value that is within our power to unlock.
I'm more optimistic today than I was a year ago that we can deliver it, and I'm confident that in 2020 and in 2021 we'll see meaningfully better performance for GE as a whole.
So with that, Steve?
Steve Winoker Great.
Before we open the line, we have a lot of people in the queue.
So limit yourself one question.
So we can get to as many as possible.
Brandon, please open the line.
Question-and-Answer Session Operator [Operator Instructions] And from Bank of America we have Andrew Obin.
Please go ahead.
Andrew Obin Yes.
Larry, I'm going to - I know other people will ask different questions but you spent a lot of time talking about renewables.
And why is renewables so important?
And when are we going to see positive operating margin on renewables and what can you take from renewables for the rest of the business?
Thanks.
Larry Culp Sure.
Andrew, I don't think we tried to talk about renewables more or less than any of our four big Industrial segments.
Obviously renewables is an important business.
You saw earlier in the week the IEA come out with a forecast that would suggest the renewables space could be a $1 trillion business over the next couple of decades.
Significant opportunity from a top line perspective, but as you point out we need to deliver better profitability amidst the growth we're enjoying today let alone growth that's down the road.
When I look at the quarter in renewables we saw margins down a little over 2% down 500 basis points year-over-year.
You break that down I think what we saw really was a fair bit of encouraging news in terms of the way the team was delivering the step up in volume particularly onshore here in the U.S. and some of the progress that we're making on our cost productivity programs.
That said that was fundamentally offset by a number of the legacy issues that we referenced in the prepared remarks and the consolidation of the Alstom JVs.
So from there we're really wrestling with the pricing headwinds which I think are again improving but not with today's shipments unfortunately.
We saw 100 basis points of pressure due to tariffs and we continue frankly to have opportunities to execute on a number of projects better.
So that's why those margins are down.
But in terms of those things that we can control so that this can be a positive margin business in line with others in the renewables space particularly in wind I think we over the next several years should be able to demonstrate not only better margins but in turn better cash performance.
Operator From JPMorgan we have Steve Tusa.
Please go ahead.
Steve Tusa Hey, guys.
Good morning.
Jamie Miller Good morning.
Larry Culp Hey, Steve.
good morning.
Steve Tusa Just on the corporate and related to Aviation.
How much of that increase in corporate did come from spare engines to GECAS?
And then would you expect this kind of headwind from MAX to basically flip positive kind of over the year following the MAX coming back to services?
Jamie Miller Yeah.
So Steve when we talk about the spare engines in the quarter specific as it relates to spares to GECAS the corporate elimination was just under $100 million this quarter and we are seeing spare engine shipments higher in the quarter about half of that now back on Aviation about half of that relates to LEAP.
And what we've seen in the second half and we've seen it third quarter we'll continue to see it in the fourth quarter is an acceleration of the LEAP-1B shipments in anticipation of the MAX return to service.
And overall, if you look at the levels we're seeing in 2019 for spare engine shipments they are up over 2018, but we expect them to be about flat as we go into 2020.
Larry Culp Yeah.
And Steve, I think just step back right you all know early in the life of a new engine program we're going to see spares represent roughly 10% of sales.
We'll see that at the tail end of the program.
I'd say everyone is focused on a safe return to service which puts a little bit more focus there.
So that's why you see the step up here in the back half relative to the sales of spares to GECAS and others.
Obviously, the benefit we take in Aviation is eliminated at the corporate level so it effectively washes.
But that's really what you're seeing.
As we think about 2020, I think we're going to try to follow Boeing's lead here when we talk about the full year cash headwinds this year due to MAX that obviously assumes that we don't see a return to service this year.
That's just I think a conservative financial planning assumption we took on the last quarterly update.
But as you can well appreciate, we're working very closely with Boeing, very closely with our carrier customers to prepare for that safe return to service not only with respect to the planes and the engines that have been delivered, but those that are in inventory or on the production line today.
Operator From Wolfe Research, we have Nigel Coe.
Please go ahead.
Nigel Coe Yeah.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Just wanted to turn to free cash flow and you talked -- you've disclosed $4.4 billion of working capital headwinds in your free cash year-to-date.
How does that reverse into 4Q?
We normally see obviously a pickup in shipments so therefore working capital draws down.
So how much of that $4.4 billion reverses in 4Q?
And then within renewables progress collections that's $0.5 billion down year-to-date and backlog is up materially.
So I'm just curious on that dynamic.
Why is progress down versus the backlog up?
Jamie Miller So the $4.4 billion of working capital this year, let me just talk about a little bit of the background on it, and then as I go I'll talk about what we see really reversing in the fourth quarter.
First, we had inventory build year-to-date of $2 billion.
That's across renewables, Aviation and Healthcare.
That largely shifts and reverses as we head into the fourth quarter with heavy fourth quarter shipment profile.
We also in receivables had a $2.4 billion headwind year-to-date in working capital consumption for receivables.
Big chunk of that is the 737 MAX.
We also have factoring programs coming down for the year too both through the continued runoff of our long-term accounts receivable, some decisions we've made to exit or discontinue higher-cost programs.
And some of that is just volume seasonality mix sort of as we've gone through three quarters, which will reverse in the fourth quarter as well.
When you look at progress, we are seeing some mixing in progress between renewables and Power.
Backlog is up on new orders, but progress upfront is a lower percentage.
So, some of that moves around a little bit in the progress line.
Operator From RBC Capital Markets, we have Deane Dray.
Please go ahead.
Deane Dray Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Larry Culp Good morning, Deane.
Deane Dray Hey, would love to get an update on the Power portfolio, the work-outs on the individual businesses.
Looked like steam had a tough quarter.
And can you also clarify on hydro?
GE was in hydro at one time.
They got out of it.
You're back in it with Alstom.
Is that considered to be core to the renewables portfolio and that would be helpful.
Thanks.
Larry Culp Sure, sure.
Well, let me take those in reverse order, Deane.
As you know when we talk about renewables, the bulk of our revenue today comes from our onshore wind business.
I think we like the renewables space broadly, and we're really trying to fortify the position we have both in offshore wind, you see that with the step up in R&D the introduction of the Haliade-X, but also other aspects, including hydro where frankly the businesses isn't operating to its full potential today.
So it's more of a project-oriented business.
It's a small $1 billion [-ish] [ph] P&L within renewables today, where we clearly are paying off those inheritance taxes, which we've referenced through the course of the year.
We think hydro can perform in line, if not better than competitors there.
But there's work to do.
We've got new leadership in place and when we were with the team several weeks ago, reviewing the strategic outlook for the business in Paris, I think they see hydro as an important business relative to our overall renewables offering particularly in certain parts of the world, where hydropower is and/or -- is and will be a part of the energy transition.
With respect to the Power portfolio, Deane as you know, we really have three businesses there.
We have our steam business, our nuclear business and Power Conversion.
Clearly, when you look at the quarter both from an equipment and a services perspective, we saw pressure.
I think Jenny went through that in her prepared remarks.
Clearly a tough comp in equipment both in steam and nuclear and we are seeing some service pressure both -- in both of those businesses.
Some of that is timing-related, some of that it's just where those businesses that hit again in the energy transition.
I think we're encouraged by what we see in Power Conversion.
I give Russell Stokes here a ton of credit.
Russell has jumped in.
He's running that business himself in addition to looking after the rest of the portfolio, brought in a new CFO from the outside, Glen Ferguson.
There's a lot that's underway as they look to manage that business closer to the customer while taking a good bit of cost out.
So there's a lot of work to do here, Deane, in nuclear given the challenges there particularly in places like Japan.
We talked about steam power conversion, but I think the team is making good progress.
You don't see it so much in these equipment and service numbers, but I think as we go into 2020, you're going to see improved margin and cash performance from these businesses ex the legacy Alstom-related issues.
Operator From Melius Research, we have Scott Davis.
Please go ahead.
Scott Davis Good morning.
I know everyone wants to talk about Power and Aerospace since they're the most topical, but I look at Healthcare and just curious through your eyes Larry, you're used to running some businesses with these characteristics of razor-razorblade characteristics.
In Healthcare, once you take out Life Sciences, the margin isn't all that exciting really.
Historically been kind of a mid-teens margin business that requires a fair amount of capital and R&D etcetera.
I mean is there a view yet that you have that, where that margin ought to be and how you get there?
And maybe just comments about how historically this is a business that really spent away a lot of the upside, so you'd get fits and starts and operating leverage, but it never really stuck?
Is there a focus being placed on getting this business to more sustainable higher profitable levels?
Larry Culp You better believe it, Scott.
And I think the team understands that we're going to have a different profile in Healthcare when we are on the other side of the biopharma transaction.
But that said I think there's a lot of conviction on Kieran and the team's part, myself as well with what we'll have on a go-forward basis, right?
Here we have a $17 billion revenue business, smack in the middle of most of that matters in healthcare delivery today.
As you point out mid-teens margins; good, I think routines there with respect to driving productivity to offset price; good cash conversion.
But there is no way in which this business is optimized right?
There's a lot we can do from a lean perspective here.
That's why referenced the Florence facility event a few weeks ago.
I think that is going to help us improve quality, improve delivery.
We should see not only expense, but frankly cash come out of that business and drive better conversion.
I think if we can be smarter about where we invest, we don't have to see all that savings be spent away.
Clearly, over time you're going to see us remix this business more toward the digital that's why referenced the AI progress with the FDA around the critical care offering.
Services is an area where I think we see opportunity as well.
So going forward, I think the teams will be very focused on making sure that this is as good a business as any GE business.
And given what I know about the space Scott, I seen no reason why this can't be a much stronger more vibrant part of our company.
And I hope you'll see that in Chicago, when we have the Investor Day that Steve referenced in conjunction with RSNA.
Operator From Vertical Research, we have Jeff Sprague.
Please go ahead.
Jeff Sprague Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
I wonder if you could just help us with kind of the timing dynamics that were at play here.
In other words, thinking about the restructuring numbers coming down, how much of that is kind of a permanent reduction of costs you expected to incur versus kind of stuff shifting to next year?
And same for kind of the receivable supply chain program and aero allowances and all that sort of stuff, is there a meaningful year-to-year timing difference there?
Larry Culp Jeff I would say on restructuring -- what you're really seeing is sort of three things: One, the timing dynamic that you referenced, I think we are in a number of places foregoing severance in light of some attrition which gives us an opportunity to reduce the spend, maintain the return.
And than just a host of other restructuring projects where whether we plan conservatively or delivering more effectively, we're getting a better return for our dollar.
So I'm encouraged by that.
With respect to timing, what that refers to specifically are the ongoing conversations and discussions that we're having in Europe with the various constituencies involved in Power.
And more broadly, I think we set ourselves up to work through that during the course of the year.
I think at this point, you may see some of that expense this year.
It clearly will be a cash pull in 2020 and beyond.
I'm not sure we're in a position to quantify that specifically today for you as those conversations are ongoing, but that's really what's happening.
We're going to continue to restructure.
We'll see that.
I think the quantum fade over time.
But we want to make sure as we go through the 2020 budget process here in November that every good opportunity, every good project gets a full hearing because we really want to play the long game here and set ourselves up for better margins and better cash.
Jamie Miller Yeah.
And Jeff, I'll jump in on the supply chain finance, some of the factoring shifts as well.
And maybe I'll talk about it in the context of our guide.
We moved our guide from negative 1 to 1 to 0 to 2, and I think the important thing to know kind of foundationally is that the first half trends we've seen are holding.
So Power, continued stabilization.
We see the benefit from interest.
Larry talked about restructuring.
But then when you start to think about the $1 billion this quarter, we are seeing a lower impact of the supply chain finance transition than we expected.
So more than half of that $1 billion was really due to the absence of that, which is a real positive for us.
When you look into 2020, that is something that largely does not repeat or we don't expect it to repeat in terms of the planning cycle.
Secondly, we're seeing better performance across a couple of our businesses; so strength in aviation services, coupled with some incrementally better Healthcare performance.
And really when you look at the construct, that plus a little bit of the restructuring side, which Larry talked about, that really makes up sort of the bulk of how we think about the 2019 shifting, but you can glean some of the pieces going into 2020.
Larry Culp Thanks, Jeff.
Operator From Citi we have Andrew Kaplowitz.
Please go ahead.
Andrew Kaplowitz Good morning, guys.
Larry Culp Good morning.
Jamie Miller Hi, Andy.
Larry Culp  Hi, Andy.
Good morning.
Andrew Kaplowitz Larry, intra-quarter you had said that you were watching Healthcare in China and potential impacts there of the trade war.
It seems like the overall business was able to absorb the impact relatively well, with the exception maybe being China imaging.
But can you give us more color regarding what you're seeing in China and Healthcare Systems specifically and the outlook for that business?
Larry Culp Yes.
No, we certainly saw some softness there in the third quarter, Andy.
Interestingly, it was more on private side than the public side of the marketplace.
I think, we are in turn planning conservatively here for the fourth quarter, just given those trends and some of the uncertainty in China right now around the relatively more short-cycle nature of Healthcare broadly, certainly in our business.
We have new leadership on the ground in China that is going.
And Yihao Zhang is going through a number of changes in both the organization and some of our go-to-market activities.
That'll take a little bit of time, I think, to put us on better competitive footing in country as well.
So as we get into 2020, I'm hopeful that regardless of the macro there, we'll see better performance from the imaging business there.
Operator From Barclays we have Julian Mitchell.
Please go ahead.
Jamie Miller Hi.
Good morning.
Larry Culp Good morning, Julian.
Julian Mitchell Good morning.
Just my question on the Power business.
It looked like Gas Power lost about $100 million of EBIT in Q3.
Just looking at that business in particular on the service piece perhaps, I think Jamie you'd called out Power Services productivity being an issue.
So maybe give more color there and how quickly you think you can improve that productivity on the service piece?
And following up on Power Portfolio, maybe Larry, is there any kind of time frame around which you think about just an outright exit from pieces of it versus continuously trying to improve what you have?
Jamie Miller So, Julian, I'll talk a little bit about Power Services and maybe I'll touch on some of the top line as well as some of the margin elements of it, and I'll break it into the three pieces.
So Gas Power services, in the contractual book we actually have been seeing factored fired hours up.
So the fleet is running.
We're seeing good utilization.
But we were impacted in the quarter, both by outage counts being down as well as by different mix of outages.
And so the major inspection outages were down as well, which really impacts how we think about what flows through.
In this book, we're really focused on cost to serve, meaning outage execution, how do we think about working capital management related to that.
And that all brings it down to how do we continue to work closely with our customers, but accrete margin over time.
The second piece, the transactional book, we are seeing revenue down.
But that is remixing to higher margin.
And we see that coming through, as we've refocused the team on price, higher-margin work.
In transactional, what is gaining revenue a bit here is some fulfillment issues and operations and we've mentioned some of the operational issues we've had earlier in the year.
They continue and that's something that Scott and his team and Larry have really been deep diving and focused on how that execution path really shifts up.
Upgrades, we see good demand.
The quarter was impacted by deal timing.
We do expect some of that to flip in the fourth quarter.
But if you pull back on services in total, expect a more positive profile in the fourth quarter.
But we still see full year as slightly down which is a little bit different than what we were seeing maybe a couple of quarters ago.
Larry Culp I would just say, with respect to the strategic question around Power Portfolio, it's important to remember that when you hear us talk about driving a lean transformation of these businesses, better upfront discipline around which projects we take on, how we price them, how we framed risk, let alone how we execute and how we support them in the aftermarket.
But that is not necessarily a strategic call once and for all time, right?
I think our view is, we wanted to make sure we had an integrated steam business, both in equipment and services.
That integration is underway, let alone the improvements that we've referenced.
Our nuclear business is a business where we see the opportunity to expand margins, admittedly in a relatively flattish space.
And Power Conversion is a turnaround I'm excited about, given the traction I see and our monthly reviews with Russell in the business.
I think over time, those operational improvements will frankly expand the strategic optionality we have in and around each of those businesses, let alone the Power Portfolio as a whole.
If and when we do something we'll have that discussion internally before we have it publicly.
But in the near term, this team's focused on making sure, we deliver better performance, we have more options, long term.
And again, I'm encouraged by the progress that I see.
Operator From Deutsche Bank, we have Nicole DeBlase.
Please go ahead.
Nicole DeBlase Yes, thanks.
Good morning.
Jamie Miller Good morning, Nicole.
Nicole DeBlase So I just want to talk a little bit about Industrial margins.
No change to the full year guidance from zero to 100 bps expansion.
Year-to-date we have 130 bps decline.
Can we just maybe bridge how you guys get there with respect to the implied 4Q guidance?
Thanks.
Jamie Miller Yes.
So Nicole, I'll just walk through maybe the macro themes on this one.
And probably the most important to really look at is the second half non-repeat of the Power charges.
So we took well over $1 billion of charges in the second half last year.
You saw this in the third quarter performance.
We expect it to continue in the fourth quarter, but largely a non-repeat of that, which is a big lift.
The second is continued strength in aviation services and the aftermarket there.
Military helps but both of those two things really help us.
We are seeing the LEAP/Passport impact in the transition but still largely very healthy at Aviation.
At Healthcare, we've got biopharma growth and continued cost control at HCS.
So that's favorable as well.
And then, as you mentioned, we do see renewables negatively impacting our own MAX.
And when you start to think about that it's the renewable volume ramp that Larry mentioned and talked about coupled with the Grid and Hydro project execution.
But net-net it's really the Power non-repeat and largely Aviation.
Operator From Gordon Haskett we have John Inch.
Please go ahead.
John Inch Thank you.
Jamie Miller Hey, John.
Good morning.
John Inch Hey, Just a question.
Rough calculations, Larry, Jamie for Aviation suggesting maybe sitting on a pretty sizable cash advance built up over the years.
First does that create kind of future cash headwind?
And when will that start?
And then second just thinking out loud.
If customers start to cancel the MAX not all of them but maybe some, considering you've received sort of large cash advances I think it's like half the final bill for engine production, do you have to give the money back?
Or how exactly does that work?
Thank you.
Jamie Miller Yes.
So let me talk a little bit about MAX first and then I'll talk about allowances and discounts on the payable that's built up there.
So first on the MAX, we still expect this year to be impacted to the tune of about negative $1.4 billion.
When we think about how that comes through in future periods it is really difficult to predict.
A lot of this is going to depend on exactly how the reentry into service works.
And specifically, logistics, production, scheduling there's just multiple variables here around the ultimate delivery schedule of Boeing planes to customers.
So that's maybe -- as you think about 2020 there's multiple scenarios that could play out there.
When I really pivot to looking at Aviation free cash flow specifically, for 2019 negative one, four [ph] for the 737, we have seen that in our planning cycle largely offset by two things: One is accrued allowances and discounts, which is basically a situation where when we sell engines we've got contracts with both air framers and airlines and when the discounts are offered on these engines, the payment for the engine can be from the airframer but the payment for the discount can be paid separately to the airline.
And they have a lot of timing variability depending on how programs are launching and different production schedules.
We have seen accrued allowances and discounts build this year and we had expected at the half for that to largely reverse this year.
Now based on where we are right now, we're expecting a little more than half of that 737 MAX deficit to be made up by this build in payables that then will push into 2020 and shift back down to your point.
The other part where we're seeing strength in Aviation free cash flow is as I mentioned before, just the Aviation aftermarket and services side of things.
Just nice cash flow continuing to come through there better than we expected.
So hopefully that gives you the sense for 2019.
And again, 2020, MAX a little bit TBD and we do expect that accrued discounts and allowances to also shift downward, which we'll see some pressure there but some goodness from MAX, hopefully.
Larry Culp John, I think that obviously, we didn't come into this year expecting what has played out in that regard.
Again our primary focus is to support Boeing and our carrier customers with respect to what they return to service.
But with respect to the cash flows in this business, we had over $4 billion last year despite some of the MAX dynamics, as Jamie just outlined.
I think we are encouraged by the work the team has done this year.
And going forward, given our market leadership position, the installed base, the new engines we have coming online not only commercially, but frankly the growing military business that we have, the opportunities to drive lean at Aviation, particularly with respect to improving inventory turnover and on-time delivery, I just think there's a lot of potential here given the secular tailwinds in Aviation, our position in the space to build off this cash flow base that we delivered last year.
And hopefully, we'll deliver this year for many years to come.
Operator From Morgan Stanley, we have Josh Pokrzywinski.
Please go ahead.
Josh Pokrzywinski Hi, good morning everyone.
Jamie Miller Good morning.
Larry Culp Hey Josh, good morning.
Josh Pokrzywinski Just want to follow up on the Power order comment Jamie that you expect a lot of that to flip into the fourth quarter.
If I recall, there was a pretty big order from Ohio that came out.
Is that in the 3Q number, which I guess would imply kind of maybe the smaller order sizes are pretty small in the quarter?
So, maybe just size that for us?
And then Larry, following up on your comment earlier about an uncertain macro environment, where do you think you're really seeing that in the business?
I mean, I think by and large, it's not really apparent in Aviation and Healthcare where maybe you would see a bit more.
And Power kind of has its own issues.
So maybe talk about how the macro is kind of informing your thinking right now.
Larry Culp Josh your -- if we just take those in reverse order, I would say that you're right.
With the long-cycle nature of our business right, I think the installed base, the backlog, half the business in the -- half the revenue in the aftermarket, we don't have a tremendous amount of near and short-cycle exposure.
But clearly, whether -- pick the business right, pick the newspaper.
There's clearly a lot of concern out there as to where the economy is globally and what are we going to be dealing with in 2020.
That said, as we look at our position in Aviation, absent the issues we talked about, I think we like a lot of what we see.
Clearly both at Power and at renewables, I think what's most relevant is where we are and how we play through the energy transition much more so than any economic pressure.
And while there are some dynamics in and around Healthcare that I mentioned earlier say in China, I think by and large, again given the nature of Healthcare, while we have some short-cycle exposure to a degree, it's far less than most businesses.
And as we go forward, I think we look at that 7% organic growth in the quarter, the 6% over the last four is evidence that even amidst the economic and political uncertainty that's out, this is a portfolio with secular dynamics around it that on balance should help us weather any storm that may come.
Jamie Miller Yes.
And Josh on the Power Services and Power overall orders, when I was talking before about some better profile in the fourth quarter, I was talking specifically about services revenues in Power.
If I really look at the Gas Power orders, we year-to-date have booked 12.8 gigawatts versus 7.2 gigawatts in the third quarter year-to-date 2018, so really pretty healthy for the year this year already.
The Ohio order yes was in 3Q.
Larry Culp And remember Josh that we -- I think we said even on the first quarter call, that one of the pleasant surprises is that the order book that we were anticipating, materializing in Power, particularly Gas Power this year looked like it was coming in earlier.
So, I think what you see a little bit relative to the year-on-year comp is just that a strong first half, good year-to-date numbers and I think -- we think a year that on balance will come in as anticipated.
Operator Thank you.
And we will now turn it back to Mr. Winoker for closing remarks.
Steve Winoker Great.
Thanks everybody for joining the call this morning and we will be available for your questions following.
Take care.
Operator Thank you.
This concludes the call for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. (NYSE:CMG) Q3 2019 Earnings Conference Call October 22, 2019 4:30 PM ET EPS of $3.82 beats by $0.60 Revenue of $1.4B (14.59% Y/Y) beats by $25.3M  Company Participants Ashish Kohli – Global Head-Investor Relations Brian Niccol – Chief Executive Officer Jack Hartung – Chief Financial Officer Conference Call Participants Katherine Fogertey – Goldman Sachs David Tarantino – Baird Sara Senatore – Bernstein Nicole Miller – Piper Jaffray David Palmer – Evercore John Glass – Morgan Stanley Jake Bartlett – SunTrust Sharon Zackfia – William Blair Jeffrey Bernstein – Barclays John Ivankoe – JPMorgan Andy Barish – Jefferies Andrew Charles – Cowen & Company Gregory Frankfurt – Bank of America Peter Saleh – BTIG Chris O'Cull – Stifel John Tower – Wells Fargo Operator Good afternoon and welcome to the Chipotle Mexican Grill Third Quarter Results Conference Call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] After today’s presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ashish Kohli, Global Head of IR.
Please go ahead.
Ashish Kohli Hello, everyone, and welcome to our third quarter 2019 earnings call.
By now, you should have access to our earnings press release.
If not, it may be found on our Investor Relations website at ir.chipotle.com.
I will begin by reminding you that certain statements and projections made in this presentation about our future business and financial results constitute forward-looking statements, including projections about comparable restaurant sales growth, new store openings, our effective tax rate and expected G&A expenses.
These statements are based on management’s current business and market expectations and our actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statement.
Please see the risk factors contained in our 2018 annual report on Form 10-K and in our subsequent Form 10-Qs for a discussion of risks that may cause our actual results to vary from these forward-looking statement.
Our discussion today will include non-GAAP financial measures.
A reconciliation to GAAP measures can be found via the link included on the Presentation page within the Investor Relations section of our website.
We will start today’s call with prepared remarks from Brian Niccol, our Chief Executive Officer; and Jack Hartung, our Chief Financial Officer.
After which, we will take your questions.
Our entire executive leadership team is available during the Q&A session.
And with that, I’ll turn the call over to Brian.
Brian Niccol Thanks, Ashish, and good afternoon, everyone.
We’re pleased with our third quarter financial performance, which reflects further progress on our key strategic initiatives that are providing guests with a great experience and positioning the business to deliver above industry growth for many years to come.
In fact, this marks the seventh consecutive quarter of accelerating comparable sales, which highlights that running great restaurants with a purpose of cultivating a better world is a compelling proposition.
For the quarter, we reported 11% comparable restaurant sales growth that included nearly 7.5% transaction growth.
Restaurant level margins of 20.8%, which is 210 basis points higher than last year.
Earnings per share adjusted for unusual items of $3.82, representing 77% year-over-year growth and digital sales growth of 88% year-over-year representing 18.3% of sales.
I’m often asked what’s next.
I believe we still have a lot of opportunity in executing our five key strategies, which are; number one, making the brand more visible and loved; number two, running successful restaurants with a strong culture that provides great food, hospitality and throughput; number three, leveraging our digital make line to grow sales and expand access; number four, engaging with our customers by launching a new loyalty program; and number five, creating a stage-gate process for innovations.
Let me give you an update on each of these starting with our stage-gate process, which is designed to test an item in a few markets on three key areas, delighting our customers, driving our financial benefit, and of course ensuring a seamless integration into our current operations.
This test tends to be predictive of what happens nationally and helps increase the likelihood of success.
I’m pleased to announce that carne asada is the latest item behind Lifestyle Bowls and our Rewards program to be successfully validated through this process and all three are meeting or exceeding our expectations.
Carne asada is a limited time offering that is easy to execute operationally and has a unique flavor profile.
It’s a tender cut of steak seasoned with fresh squeezed line and finish with hand chopped cilantro and a blend of signature spices.
No wonder it’s receiving terrific customer feedback.
As great as carne asada taste, it’s success is amplified by all elements of our strategy coming together in unison.
Specifically, digital providing more frictionless access, marketing enhancing awareness and emphasizing the deliciousness of carne asada operations, delighting our guests with great hospitality and throughput and our supply chain, ensuring we have the highest quality ingredients that meet our food with integrity standards.
I’m so proud of the collective efforts of our teams rolling out this new premium steak.
Beyond carne asada, we are also testing queso blanco, salads in quesadillas.
These items are in various markets where we are gaining valuable feedback.
As I’ve stated previously, we’re not going to roll out new menu items at the sacrifice of throughput nor will we add complexity to our restaurants by overemphasizing new menu choices.
We will update you on our progress of all potential new menu items as they move through our stage-gate process.
Now let’s talk about our marketing efforts, which have and will continue to be an important enabler of our growth.
In fact, you saw this with the carne asada launch as we leverage our digital capabilities as well as a national TV campaign by teaming up with film director David Gelb.
These spots are a continuation of our Behind the Foil campaign that launched earlier this year and highlight real Chipotle team members and providing an inside look at the real fresh food and skill for preparation that happens in Chipotle kitchens every day.
These efforts are designed to increase transactions and grow sales by driving culture, driving a difference and ultimately driving a purchase.
In addition, we effectively utilize social media and ran several strategic promotions during the quarter to make the Chipotle brand more visible, while helping expand access.
Going back to the question of what’s next, we launched Chipotle Rewards in March and are just now beginning to leverage that platform.
We currently have 7 million enrolled members and have only scratched the surface on database marketing.
We are encouraged by early signs of transaction increases across all frequency bands and going forward, we’ll double down on our ability to leverage this data to incent behaviors.
We expect this lever to become a bigger driver over time as we gain more experience gathering customer insight, while continuing to expand our digital platform.
Reducing friction and providing more convenient access for our guests has been critical to increasing our digital system penetration over the past couple of years.
This quarter, digital sales grew 88% year-over-year to $257 million and represented 18.3% of sales during the seasonally slower summer quarter for digital.
And we’re knocking on the door of digital becoming $1 billion business.
Consistent with past quarters delivery remained a key driver of our digital growth given enhanced capabilities on our app and website as well as our expanded availability from more than 97% of our restaurants.
Importantly, digital remains highly incremental and we continue to see residual lift in delivery sales that lasts beyond any promotion.
Additionally, I’m pleased to announce that we have finished installing our digital make lines in all relevant restaurants and this was completed slightly ahead of schedule and makes the system more efficient for our guests, team members and delivery partners, while driving more sales and loyalty for Chipotle.
Now that we have the digital make lines installed, we are focused on ensuring that execution for this large and growing business matched that of the traditional front line.
This brings me to the evergreen topic of operational excellence.
The reality is that all the growth initiatives I just mentioned are being supported by the terrific job our operations team is doing in providing a great guest experience.
And we know cultivating a better world includes investing in our people.
And we believe that’s the right approach in creating an environment where our employees can thrive professionally as well as personally and be in a position to win not only today but also in the future.
Enhanced training and development, industry-leading employee benefits, including the recent Debt-Free Degrees program in addition to our newly expanded tuition reimbursement program and a new crew bonus that was paid out to more than 2,600 employees last quarter are just a few examples of how we continue to invest in our people to cultivate a better restaurant culture.
The result is our employees putting their best foot forward and remaining focused on our core fundamentals.
This is leading to us attracting and retaining the right talent and having higher teams stability, which is allowing them to spend more time together and deliver on two important benefits.
One, delicious food consistently being prepared and served every time, something our guests have definitely noticed.
And number two, we’re seeing a steady improvement in throughput aided by training, focus and providing our teams with an easy to use dashboard that provides greater visibility on performance.
I want to recognize our team for their efforts and hard work in delivering another outstanding quarter.
I believe we are still in the early stages of our journey and we need to stay focused on our priorities and executing flawlessly to support our growth, while providing our customers with the experience they expect from Chipotle.
Thank you to all our employees for all that you do.
We have a unique brand and I love the passion and determination that I see during my restaurant visits as our crew members constantly strive to be better today than they were yesterday.
With that, here’s Jack to walk you through the financials.
Jack Hartung Thanks, Brian and good afternoon, everyone.
We delivered outstanding financial results in the third quarter as comps and margins continued to expand further highlighting the strength of our economic model.
Connecting with guests through culturally relevant marketing focused on Chipotle’s great taste and real ingredients, while providing more convenient access is helping lead to greater overall demand.
Sales were $1.4 billion in the quarter, an increase of 14.6% from last year.
Comp sales grew 11% in the quarter, which includes a 10 basis point reduction as a result of deferred revenue from our Rewards program.
This deferral is lower than previous quarters due to a combination of an increase in free entrée redemptions as guests earned enough points and an adjustment and breakage rate assumption for chips and guacamole now that we have more history.
Moving forward, we expect quarterly deferral to range between 20 basis points and 40 basis points based on various factors including the pace of signups and promotional activity.
Restaurant level margins of 20.8% expanded 210 basis points over last year and earnings per share adjusted for unusual items was $3.82, a 77% year-over-year growth.
The third quarter had unusual expenses related to our transformation as well as legal reserves that negatively impacted our earnings per share by about $0.35, leading to GAAP earnings per share of $3.47.
Our comp of 11% was driven by an acceleration in transactions as nearly 7.5% of the comp came from greater guests visit.
The higher average check includes a price impact of about 2% and a mixed contribution of roughly 1.5% driven predominantly by digital orders, which have a higher average check.
Looking to the fourth quarter, factoring in strong sales we have seen thus far in October as well as the tougher comparison from last year, we expect Q4 comps to be in a high single digit range.
This will result in our 2019 full year comp guidance being at the top end of our high single digit range.
We opened 25 new restaurants in the quarter bringing our total openings for the year to 60.
And based on the early success of Chipotlanes, we shifted our real estate strategy to seek more sites that can accommodate a Chipotlane.
As a result of the more than 80 restaurants currently at construction, about half of them will have a Chipotlane, which will result in a total of about 60 Chipotlanes by the end of 2019.
Given the longer construction timeline associated with Chipotlane, some of these new openings are likely to shift from Q4 into early 2020, so expect our total openings for 2019 to fall at or slightly below the low end of our 2019 range of 142 to 155 openings.
For 2020 we anticipate opening between 150 and 165 new restaurants with more than half including a Chipotlane.
And we expect these openings will be better balance throughout the year with around 60 openings in the first half of the year versus only 35 openings through June of this year.
Food cost for the quarter were 33.2%, a decrease of 20 basis points from last year due primarily to a menu price increase that was partially offset by higher cost of several ingredients.
On a sequential basis, avocado pricing moderated as we expected.
This was the result of sourcing more supply from Peru, which reduced our reliance on Mexico.
For Q4 we expect ongoing moderation in avocado pricing as a result of increasing supply in the back half of the quarter, but we believe this will be largely offset by the higher cost of carne asada resulting in cost of sales remaining in the low to mid 33% range.
Labor costs for the quarter were 26.6%, a decrease of 60 basis points from last year.
This decrease was driven primarily by sales leverage, partially offset by labor inflation, which continues to be in the 4% to 5% range.
It also includes 20 basis point additional investment related to our restaurant level performance incentives including the crew bonus, Brian mentioned earlier.
We expect Q4 labor costs to be in the high 26% range given extra initial labor expenses associated with a significant number of new restaurants being opened in this quarter as well as lower seasonal sales in the fourth quarter.
Other operating costs for the quarter were 12.8% a decrease of 90 basis points from Q3 of last year due to lower marketing and promo cost as well as sales leverage.
Marketing and promo cost were 2% in the quarter, a decrease of about 50 basis points compared to Q3 of last year as we decided to shift some of our marketing investment to Q4 to support carne asada and other promotions.
As a result, we expect our marketing investment to be at or slightly above 4% in Q4, which will result in the full year investment remaining right around 3% of sales.
G&A for the quarter was approximately $115 million on a GAAP basis or $105 million on a non-GAAP basis, excluding about $7.5 million for settlements of several legal matters and $2.5 million related to transformation expenses.
It also includes $72 million in underlying G&A expenses, $25 million related to non-cash stock compensation, $5 million related to higher bonus accruals from our strong performance and payroll taxes on stock option exercises and $3 million related to other expenses including our All Manager Conference, which will be held in March of next year.
Underlying G&A with a little lower than expected as we continue to finish rounding out our organizational structure.
We’re expecting to fill open positions in Q4 and therefore, we believe our underlying G&A support will get to around $74 million to $75 million in Q4.
Also, if we assume our current financial trends continue stock compensation, including performance adjustments, along with the higher bonus expenses should be right around $25 million.
Lastly, we’re expecting to recognize between $2 million and $3 million for expenses in Q4, related to our upcoming All Manager Conference.
And we expect the total expense to be right around $16 million, most of which will hit in Q1 of next year.
Our effective tax rate for Q3 was 17.9% on a GAAP basis and 18.3% on a non-GAAP basis.
Both these rates are lower or below our full year guidance range due to the recognition of excess tax benefits on stock-based compensation during the quarter.
For Q4, we expect underlying effective tax rate to be in the 26% to 29% range, though it may vary based on discrete items as well as any stock option exercises.
Our balance sheet remains strong with cash and investments totaling $844 million, as of September 30.
We repurchased $39 million of our stock at an average share price of $783 during the quarter.
In closing, we’re pleased with our Q3 results as our strategic growth initiatives continue to sustain strong sales momentum, which is a key driver of our economic model.
We remain bullish about the future and we believe we still have plenty of runway ahead.
I just want to thank all of our restaurant team members for their contribution and their passion as they remain Chipotle’s most valuable asset as we worked together to cultivate a better world.
With that, we’re happy to take your questions.
Question-and-Answer Session Operator Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Katherine Fogertey with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Katherine Fogertey Great, thank you.
I’m just trying to get a handle around the new unit guidance.
So you guys expect additions to new units to go now at the lower end of the 140 to 155.
And some of those are getting pushed into next year.
Does the new unit guidance then implicitly state that you guys are slowing down the pace of new restaurant adds?
I’m just trying to get a handle on what are the puts and takes between unit growth here when coupled with the very strong comp momentum in the quarter?
Thank you.
Brian Niccol Yes.
Thanks, Kathy.
So no, the plan is actually, I think the guidance that we shared is we’re going to be accelerating new units as we move into 2020.
And I think, what we just wanted to share with people is, a greater blend of that will now include Chipotlane, which we’ve accelerated the composition of Chipotlanes in our new unit kind of growth trajectory going forward.
So the good news is with 11% comp and 7.5% transactions and really strong margins, we’re now going to be able to push on how we continue to expand our new units going forward.
So this is really just one of these temporary things, whereas we take advantage of an opportunity with the Chipotlane, which really I think it is a terrific outcome because it will drive our digital results as well as drive the total business, which hopefully as we’ve seen to date will result in even better returns going forward as we build out the new units.
So no plan to slowdown, if anything, our guidance was intended to inform people we’re going to be increasing.
And we also wanted to be share with folks that we’re going to have a greater mix now Chipotlanes.
Katherine Fogertey Can you help us also just to remind us on the AUVs for restaurants with Chipotlanes versus those without?
How we should think about how that blend might progress?
Brian Niccol Yes.
I don’t think we’re disclosing exactly what the AUVs are on this.
But here’s what it is, I think we can give you some interesting facts on it, which is our digital business is roughly 50% bigger and the driver of that additional growth is our order ahead business, which as you know, it has got the best margin associated with our business going forward.
So we loved the composition of the sales and we love the economics associated with new units, whether they have Chipotlanes or not.
But we’re very positive on which Chipotlane brings to our new unit program and why we’re raising guidance for next year.
Katherine Fogertey Great.
Thank you.
Operator The next question will be from David Tarantino with Baird.
Please go ahead.
David Tarantino Hi, good afternoon and congrats on another great quarter.
Jack, I was wondering if you could maybe clarify what you meant around the Q4 guidance.
I think you mentioned that October so far has been strong and you’re expecting maybe that to ease, as it is cycle tougher comparisons coming up.
So could you maybe just elaborate on what you’re seeing in October so we have the right context for the rest of the quarter?
And then Brian, you mentioned that you’re seeing some progress on throughput in the restaurants, I was just wondering if you could contextualize what that progress has been so far and how you see that playing out in 2020?
Thanks.
Jack Hartung Yes, David on comp.
We saw comps accelerate in September, when we initially rolled out carne asada, which is around September 12 or so.
And then we started media around September 22.
So we saw sales accelerate at the end of the quarter and then we saw those higher sales levels continue into October.
The guidance that we’re giving for the fourth quarter though it takes into account the strong comps as we start the quarter, but also that our strongest comp month last year was December, so going up against the tougher comparison in December.
That’s when we had the delivery bowls and those were very, very successful.
The other thing, I want to mention is, we only have enough supply for carne asada to last us for part of the quarter.
We think we’ll probably run out around the end of November, maybe into early December.
And so we’re being a little cautious with what happens once we run out of carne asada.
But the momentum to start the quarter is great, but we got a tougher challenge as we move through the quarter.
Brian Niccol And then, yes, to your second question, David, on throughput.
The thing that I think is really exciting to see is as each quarter has gone by with the focus on this.
We continue to see every region making progress on their throughput goals.
So we’re not all the way to where we have targeted, but we are making great progress and our throughput is better than it was last quarter and it’s definitely better than it was two quarters ago.
So the operational team is very focused.
Scott has the guys dialed in on this and our throughput is continuing to improve quarter-to-quarter, month-to-month.
So I’m very optimistic about what that’s going to do for the business going forward.
David Tarantino All right.
Thank you.
Operator The next question will come from Sara Senatore with Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Sara Senatore A question about margins if I could, which is just about the fact that it’s been a little bit volatile this year, but in the end, very good margin expansion and maybe for the full year, EBIT margin on a recurring basis, maybe as much as high 100 to 200 basis points something in that range.
But I guess that implies a very high flow through margin, even on a 10% comp.
So could you just deconstruct that a little bit?
Especially, because you have a traffic-driven comp, there’s not a lot of price in there.
Is that digital mix?
Are there cost savings that are coming through?
And is it still the case that when we think about potential return to peak volumes, we should think about restaurant level margins that are maybe below what they would have been at previous peaks?
Or are you finding opportunities again between throughput order ahead is sort of structurally offset, whatever the headwinds may have been?
Brian Niccol Yes, Sara.
The way I would think about margins is I think most of the leverage, it’s from flow through.
So we do get a higher, a very attractive flow through, when we have higher sales, especially when they’re transaction-driven like this.
We have some headwinds in there.
That we have to overcome, like we do have labor inflation that 4% to 5%, that’s about a 100 basis point headwind, avocados to get better in the quarter.
So we had bigger headwinds from avocados in Q2 than Q3.
And then moving into Q4, we’ve got a little bit of a challenge.
The carne asada’s more expensive, a cut of meat.
It’s a higher quality premium cut of steak.
So that puts a little bit of pressure on our food costs.
But I would say that from overall margin standpoint, we’re pretty much right on track.
We talked about at $2.1 million volume, we should generate a margin of about 21% and we’re right about there.
In terms of as you move from $2.1 million to $2.2 million to $2.3 million up to if we get back to our peak volumes of $2.5 million, we’re still confident that we’ll be right in that same kind of margin range of like a 25%.
So we think the flow through so far is pretty much right on track.
Sara Senatore Thank you.
Operator The next question comes from Nicole Miller of Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Nicole Miller Thank you.
Good afternoon.
I wanted to understand what might be the tipping point on the acquisition of customer data.
I believe, you said 7 million loyalty members.
So right now the comps are producing, I would imagine it’s not doing much yet with that data.
So maybe you could talk about what you’re doing with the data, but the power of what it can be – what it can do, now that you have a 7 million base and is that enough of a base to produce results?
Brian Niccol Yes.
Thanks, Nicole.
The – obviously, we’re delight we’ve got 7 million users now in rewards program.
We anticipate that’s going to continue to grow.
And as I mentioned in the past, we are already starting some experimentation with the various cohorts.
And the good news is, when we have done some of these experiments, we’ve seen meaningful changes in peoples’ frequency and their engagement levels with the brand.
So I think this is something that ongoing, as we roll into 2020, it starts – it’s going to start being a contributor to our sales growth.
Because we’ll have a meaningful database with meaningful numbers of users and I think we’re learning really quickly and figuring out what really does result in behavior changes that rewards people and at the same time rewards the business with incremental transactions and incremental sales.
So I’m very optimistic about what this can do for us.
The database marketing is showing signs of being a really meaningful growth lever going forward.
Nicole Miller Thank you.
And just a follow-up and last question, Chipotle is clearly getting stronger every day.
So when you think about the development acceleration for next year, is there anything in there for international growth and if not, when and how do you leverage that international opportunity?
Brian Niccol Yes.
So the reality is exactly what you said, which is the health of the business and the operational performance gives us confidence to accelerate new units next year.
And then you compound that with adding to the mix, new growth lever called Chipotlanes, which is a driver of digital sales and highly profitable sales.
We’re really excited about what our growth opportunity is from new unit standpoint in United States, so very excited about that.
At the same time, we’re continuing to work on our business in Canada, which they have made tremendous progress to date.
And if they continue to deliver the financial performance that they’re delivering, which is now getting close to what we’re seeing in the U.S., obviously, that’ll be a place down the road that we will look to accelerate new units as well.
We’re still probably in the earlier innings in Europe.
Because we’re still learning there on what we can do with our Chipotle business.
But again, the team there is making great progress as well.
But still some work to be done there on both the model and how we continue to introduce Chipotle in the new markets.
But I just want to emphasize, there is so much opportunity in the U.S., with the performance that we’re getting out of our business.
As well as frankly, the types of restaurants we can build going forward, the combination of end-caps, and now end-caps with Chipotlanes as well as the inline unit and then the freestanding restaurants that we’ve done to date.
So we’re very optimistic about where we can go with our unit growth in United States.
And then obviously, down the road, we’ll figure out how we pivot outside the U.S.  Nicole Miller Thank you.
Operator The next question will be from David Palmer of Evercore.
Please go ahead.
David Palmer Thanks.
Good evening.
Question on labor, I think your labor hours per unit went up more like high-single digits this quarter versus mid-single digits in the first half of the year.
I know you can tell me if I’m right on that, but if it did ramp up, why?
And more broadly, even beyond this quarter, how do you view that leverage point going forward?
Is that second make line, for example, fully staffed and ready to go?
And should we see similar levels of labor leverage?
Or is there more to be had or even less because you’re not up to where you need to be?
Thanks.
Jack Hartung Yes, David.
I would say, the labor leverage hit exactly where it should be.
I’m not sure, how you’re doing your calculation.
We had additional transactions of 7.5%.
We grow our labor hours at a lesser percent than sales, quite a bit lesser percent.
So when you say high-single-digit, that’s not what we actually added.
We would have added something quite a bit less than 7.5% in terms of the hours.
And if you breakdown the labor leverage, we had labor leverage of about 60 basis points in the quarter and that’s despite the fact that we had about 100 basis points of inflation challenge that we had to deal with.
So we really labor – leveraged the labor line by about 160 basis points and that’s really right on the target.
Now going forward with digital, we do think there’s an opportunity with digital for us to get even more efficient.
We’re in the early innings there.
Chipotlane, we’ve only got 20 Chipotlane restaurants right now, but we’re going to have 60 by the end of the year.
And we’ll learn more about how we staff the Chipotlanes and how we can really get as much as efficiency that we know is possible, out of moving more of the sales towards that second make line.
So, so far we’re really pleased with where labor is, but we do think that there’s additional efficiencies as the second make line grows.
David Palmer I guess my second point was really about, in that second make line, are those staffed and are you effectively at a low capacity utilization on that second make line currently and therefore that incremental margin is going to be outstanding, perhaps even better than the first line?
Or is that something that you’re not, where you need to be in terms of staffing when that mix gets up to where some of your better digital make line stores are staffed?
Thanks.
Brian Niccol Yes.
David, I got your question.
It’s a good question.
In our very busiest digital restaurant, those things are fully staffed and I think there’s additional leverage to be had.
There are areas of the country and there are individual stores where the digital business is not at that same 18%.
We do have challenges in making sure we’ve got the right staffing throughout the day and every single day.
So there are opportunities for us to staff those restaurants, so that the business will build, but I will tell you in terms of the levers that you’re getting at with the restaurants that are already at 18%, 20%, 25% digital, those restaurants are staffed.
And as we add more sales to the second make line, you’re going to see greater sales leverage in those stores.
David Palmer Great.
Thank you.
Operator The next question will be from John Glass of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
John Glass Hi, thanks very much.
Just on digital sales, I understand there’s some seasonality, but I was still surprised to see sequentially about the same percentage of sales as digital.
So maybe what gives you confidence that you aren’t hitting some sort of ceiling in that, the consumer doesn’t want to transact more than they are in digital channels.
And can you talk specifically about how delivery has performed in this quarter relative to prior quarters?
Brian Niccol Yes, sure.
So what we’ve seen is the seasonality was more around the delivery aspect of the business, in our digital business because we continue to see growth in our order ahead business.
And so, what we’ve also seen is we’ve come out of kind of the summer months where the seasonality was is, that strength in continued on with the order ahead business and then consistent with what we’ve seen in the past, the seasonality played out in the delivery side of the business.
So we’re definitely confident that we are far from the ceiling.
And then we’ve got other indications where when we’ve added additional access like the Chipotlane, you get well beyond 20%.
So that’s what gives us confidence that we’re far from the ceiling on this.
John Glass Okay, that’s helpful.
And then just on carne asada, is this – was this intended to be an LTO or what – why are you running out of product and is it just temporary or is it, you’re just going to pause this in-and-out?
I thought it was more like, you were going to try attempting to build sort of permanent new sales items, not LTOs?
Brian Niccol Yes.
This was intended to be a seasonal offering where we would bring it in-and-out.
There are other items like queso blanco, we’re assuming it the success for the stage-gate-process, that’ll be more permanent.
But yes, this one initially was intended to be more of a product represent some news and we may use it again depending on how the whole experience plays out.
The early feedback we’ve seen from our customers and our crew members is, they definitely would like us to do this again.
So, we’ll figure out exactly the right pacing and sequencing and whether or not it’s something we want to have permanently in the business or if we continue to use it more as like a seasonal item.
John Glass Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Brian Niccol Yes.
Operator The next question comes from Jake Bartlett of SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Jake Bartlett Great.
Thanks for taking the question.
I just want to ask a follow-up on the carne asada, my kind of chats or just even my experience in the stores was that the carne asada was selling significantly more than the regular steak.
And so I assumed that, that was driving a decent amount of checks.
So within that the context of that, of those statements, could you talk about how October has been impacted by the carne asada?
And maybe what we could expect to kind of fall-off with the carne asada’s removal.
Brian Niccol Okay.
Yes, sure.
So, we have gotten great response to the carne asada initiative.
We’re really excited to see that the stage-gate-process was predictive of what we’ve seen nationally.
So we’re really delighted about that.
We’re seeing it drive both check-in transactions, which is also another thing we’re very excited about.
And what we’re seeing is, it’s sourcing new users as well as having people that have been users of the Chipotle business to try a new occasion.
So we’re seeing frequency compression and we’re seeing new users coming in.
What we’ll obviously want to continue to understand, which we’ve got some understanding on is, what happens to all those new users that came in now that they’ve experienced the Chipotle business and historically, Chipotle has been very sticky beyond just one product, it’s the whole value proposition that get people excited about Chipotle.
The idea of Food With Integrity, the idea of customization, the idea of speed, and then obviously putting that all together at a really reasonable price, it’s something that’s very sticky for the Chipotle business.
So we think this is much bigger than just the product.
It’s more about introducing people to the Chipotle experience ongoing.
Jake Bartlett Got it.
And I don’t know if Jack would you want to just share what it’s kind of done to how much it’s been helping the October sales in mix.
But also just building on that question, if it’s sounds like its successful in driving check and driving traffic and kind of hitting everything you want it to, why not keep it around or do it more permanently?
Is it a matter of the throughput or is it a matter of the supply being a little more difficult?
What would be the reason why not to keep on offering it?
Jack Hartung Yes, so look, the main driver is, we were not willing to compromise on our Food With Integrity principles on the supply over this program.
And so going into it, we knew the supply available would take us through November to early December.
And, something we’re going to work on going forward, given the response we’ve seen is, okay, how do we work on the supply of steak in that particular cut to be consistent with our Food With Integrity principles to give us the flexibility to do it beyond just the seasonal program.
But I don’t think we can answer your specific question that you’re looking for on exactly how is it playing out in the product mix and the comp.
Obviously it’s playing a positive role.
Jake Bartlett Got it.
Jack Hartung That’s where I would leave it.
Jake Bartlett Okay.
I appreciate it.
Jack Hartung Sure.
Operator The next question is from Sharon Zackfia with William Blair.
Please go ahead.
Sharon Zackfia Hi, good afternoon.
I am wanted to follow up on the Chipotlanes and as well on the carne asada.
So on Chipotlanes, could you – Jack give us any idea on kind of what the incremental cost is when you add the Chipotlanes to locations and maybe what the unit economics are that we should think about for 2020 associated with those new openings?
And then on carne asada, any quantification around what it did to COGS either in the September quarter or what we should expect in the fourth quarter?
Jack Hartung Yes, Sharon on the investment, the investments about an extra $75,000 to add Chipotlanes, that would be for like an end-cap building.
It’s the same $75,000 on a free standard, but a free standard just cost more than an end-cap.
So our emphasis so far has been on getting the vast majority of our sites should be on the end-cap.
We’re trying to get as many end-caps with Chipotlanes as possible, that’s why we’ve been able to pretty quickly pivot so that we can have more than half of our portfolio.
Now we’ll have the Chipotlanes.
So it’s a relatively modest investment.
Too early to say on the sales what the difference is between Chipotlanes and non- Chipotlanes, Sharon, we’ve got 20 of these that spread throughout the country.
I’ll tell you they’re opening up nicely.
We’re very pleased with the results.
I just wouldn’t want to put a number on whether it’s performing at or above from a sales standpoint, but the fact that it’s 50% above on digital it’s a very strong starting point.
We know that when you can operate Chipotlanes with less friction, meaning it’s easier to order, it’s easy to stop-in and pick up Chipotlane without even getting out of your car.
That tends to cause our customer to want to get your Chipotlanes even more often.
So our optimism, even though it’s very early is very strong and the economics with even a modest increase in sales at that kind of an incremental investment is going to be very attractive.
Sharon Zackfia And then on carne asada, if you could help quantify the impact on your COGS for the third and fourth quarters.
Jack Hartung Yes, it’s going to be about it – it’s very small in the third quarter, Sharon, because it was only in for a few weeks, but it’s going to be in the ballpark of 50 basis points.
And so – that’s what we mentioned in our guidance that our food costs in Q4 is going to stay about the same, maybe a tick or two higher.
Even though avocados are going to cause less in the fourth quarter, that’s going to be offset by carne asada and we’re guessing right now, again, we’re trying to predict what the rest of the quarter is going to look like when we’ll run out.
But it looks like it’s probably going to be right around 50 basis point impact in the quarter.
Sharon Zackfia That’s helpful.
Thank you.
Operator The next question will be from Jeffrey Bernstein of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Jeffrey Bernstein Great.
Thank you very much.
Two questions, just one following up on the, I guess menu relation.
Brian, it sounds like the carne asada success, I’m wondering how you literally would define success in terms of maybe what mix you’ve achieved thus far or what you think is the target level and maybe any color on the case of DSL.
In case, you talked about what potential hurdles there would be to overcome in the stage-gate-process before we might see any or all of those?
And then I have one follow-up.
Brian Niccol Yes, look on a carne asada, I mean what we did in this stage-gate-process was, we wanted to make sure we had a product that consumers wanted.
We wanted to make sure we had a product that our operators could execute.
And then obviously we wanted to make sure it made sense financially.
And the way we derive that financial benefit is through check and transactions.
The good news is carne asada has done terrific on the traffic driving as well as the check driving.
And then our operators, to their credit have done job in executing and the feedback we’re getting from consumers, both new users and existing consumers, is they love the product.
So by all accounts, we’re delighted with what carne asada is doing for the business.
And as you fast forward to other initiatives, our intention is we want to derive all those types of benefits when we’re launching a product.
So, queso blanco, same expectations, needs to be something our crews can execute with excellence, consistent with our Food With Integrity principles.
It’s got to be something the consumer is going to say they love it and they want to try it again.
And then obviously it’s got to play a role in the financial model so that it’s continuing to move Chipotle forward.
And that’s the reason why we test these things.
And, some will play a bigger role in traffic driving than others and that’s why you got to have a pipeline of different products to play a different role in the business.
So I’m really excited about what the pipeline looks like and very delighted really about carne asada going through this whole process and then everybody executing with excellence.
That’s how we end up with a successful initiative.
Jeffrey Bernstein Got it.
And can you just for color, maybe Jack on the marketing stand, I think you said 4% in the fourth quarter, which would lead the full year at 3%.
I’m just wondering how you measure the return on that and whether we should think about 2020 being more in the 4% range or whether there’s a reason why you prefer to keep it up that lower 3% level?
Jack Hartung No, I mean Jeff we have no plans to do that, that could change as the year unfolds.
But right now we think 3% about the right level, right now we think we’re getting a great return.
You know the marketing team, every single campaign they look at what’s happening in terms of transaction, what the return is and so far we’ve been getting a great return on our dollar.
So right now we think 3% is the right level.
If we – should change in the future, we’ll communicate that.
Jeffrey Bernstein Thank you.
Operator The next question will be from John Ivankoe with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
John Ivankoe Great.
Thank you.
I was hoping to get an update on some of the supply chain initiatives that we’ve been talking about in 2019.
If there’s an update in terms of how much money was saved in the third quarter, if there’s an outlook for the fourth quarter and what the visibility is for some of the supply chain work on fiscal 2020 to start contribute more meaningfully the margins overall.
Jack Hartung Yes.
John, we’ve saved another few million dollars during the quarter, but it was offset by other things including, some of the carne asada pressure that we saw in the last three weeks of the month.
But listen, the team’s been doing a lot of great work and we think that we’ll see more savings in 2020.
Too early to predict what those are going to be.
I mean, a lot of these things will take time because you’re talking about long-term relationship with suppliers, but I expect we’ll be able to talk next year about even more savings from the efforts of the supply chain team.
John Ivankoe Thank you.
Operator The next question is from Andy Barish with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Andy Barish Yes.
Wondering on kind of looking out, obviously, the second half margin progress, which we thought wasn't quite going to be a strong as the first half may act otherwise, but I wonder if you look out to 2020 and kind of give us a sense of the puts and takes, I assume, pricing is going to remain around 2%.
Any early thoughts on kind of the protein basket just as we try to gauge some of the margin levers for next year as we sit here today?
Jack Hartung Yes, Andy, we're not seeing anything out of the ordinary right now.
It's too early to get a precise prediction, but it looks like beef generally to the extent that we can get the supply of food with integrity cuts that Brian mentioned, it looks like that should be pretty stable.
We don't see anything out of the new ordinary in chicken.
We see what's happening with pork supplies throughout the world.
Our supplies are separate from that and so we haven't seen any impact there.
So right now we're kind of crossing our fingers and hope that everything continues to look stable.
We're also hoping for a benign or maybe even a positive benefit from avocados next year is going to be the alternate year where we should see a more plentiful harvest.
And so right now, knock on wood, cross fingers, all that kind of stuff.
It looks like a pretty stable cost of goods sales environment for next year.
Andy Barish And do you anticipate menu price kind of staying in this 2%-ish area?
Jack Hartung You know, we're studying that right now.
Andy, if we did anything, it definitely would be in that kind of 2% range, but no decisions have been made.
Andy Barish Thank you.
Operator The next question is from Andrew Charles with Cowen & Company.
Please go ahead.
Andrew Charles Great, thanks guys.
On Chipotlanes, what percent of the existing 2,500 non-Chipotlane locations have the capacity or the ability to add a Chipotlane versus the amount that are structural enable and just also just curious about your appetite to retrofit these locations as you go through 2020 and beyond?
Brian Niccol Yes, sure.
So there on our current estate there really aren't that many options out there for us to retrofit into the Chipotlane only because we don't have that many end caps historically.
Chipotle really was in line unit execution.
So we're just limited with the real estate that we have and then you've got to have the end cap in the right location in order to do a retrofit.
With that said, where the opportunity exist, we've done one, and not surprising, we saw positive result given for what Jack said earlier, when you get people more access with less friction, the order ahead business continues to take steps forward.
So limited opportunity in retrofit but lots of opportunity going forward as we build new restaurants.
Andrew Charles That's helpful.
And I know you're reluctant to give numbers in details on Chipotlane, but when you talk about year-to-cash on cash returns for new store of around 40%.
Is it right to think that Chipotlane is higher than that just given this is a winning prototype for future development?
Jack Hartung I mean, it's early but, yes, we would expect to Chipotlanes are going to be a higher return than the average portfolio.
Andrew Charles Thanks, guys.
Operator Next question will be from Gregory Frankfurt with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Gregory Frankfurt Maybe just going back on to Andrew's question, in terms of the operating model for Chipotlanes going forward, I guess, right now, you can only order ahead as you pull up to a Chipotlane.
what's the likelihood that you shift this model to more of a traditional drive through operating structure at some point down the line?
I guess what's going to I guess prevent you from making that shift at some point?
Thanks.
Brian Niccol Well, nothing would prevent us from making the shift.
We just don't believe it's the right shift.
So what we've seen is giving people the access through ordering ahead, so that they don't have to get other car is a nice unlock for the Chipotle business so that we don't have to provide the additional complexity of running a traditional drive through.
Frankly, I think this is the future of how people will want to interact with restaurant companies because this is arguably faster than any other way possible to get your food.
You order ahead and you don't have to get out of your car and our model is already fast now.
Now, we've made it fast assuming that we get out of your car, come into the restaurant, grab your food and go.
So we don't see any reason to make that pivot going forward.
Gregory Frankfurt Got it.
Can you maybe talk about the experience so far in terms of balancing consumers kind of timing when they show up at the restaurant with kind of when the food is ready, and if they show up early, and how you manage through that and kind of how you would expect to manage that as you go forward?
Thank you very much.
Brian Niccol Sure.
So you have – with our smart pickup times, you do select a time for when your food is going to be ready and then you show up with it.
If you show up early, we usually have people just pull forward and tell them they can come into the restaurant at their time or there are times where we will bring the food out to them where they pull forward.
The good news is what we've seen is after the restaurant opens and two or three weeks in, people get into a pretty good rhythm where they shop on time and once they realize this is how the Chipotlane works and we've gotten really great consumer acceptance and the right type of behavior going forward.
So that's not been a problem to-date and it's really just a matter of people adopting the new approach to how you get your food in your car.
Gregory Frankfurt Helpful perspective.
Thank you.
Brian Niccol Yes.
Operator The next question comes from Peter Saleh with BTIG.
Please go ahead.
Peter Saleh Great, thanks.
With 7 million loyalty members now, can you talk a little bit about the composition of the customer.
Are they new users or they lapsed customers and just maybe a little bit more detail.
Are these loyalty customers, are they spending more, are they coming in more frequently?
Any details around that would be helpful.
Thanks.
Brian Niccol Yes, of course.
So this is a question I love to answer because the thing that's been great about the program to-date is it's definitely got bigger representation of new and light/medium users, and what we're seeing is when we do communicate with them with certain incentives, we see behavioral changes that are very positive and so we're seeing all the things you would want to see in a rewards program from a standpoint of the composition of those that are in the rewards program and then the behaviors associated with those that are within the program.
So a lot of new light and medium users, and then we're seeing really nice behavior associated with all those various cohorts.
Peter Saleh Great.
Thank you very much.
Operator The next question will be from Chris O'Cull with Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Chris O'Cull Yes.
Thanks.
Brian, given the supply of Carne Asada, it is going to run out late November, what are the plans to continue driving usage from guests that came in for the product.
I mean, I'm just wondering if we should expect a new product news before the end of the year?
And then I had a follow-up.
Brian Niccol Yes.
Our plan is those that come in with Carne Asada, they get a great Chipotle experience that is going to result in them wanting to come back even with Carne Asada is not on the menu.
And we're obviously focused on continuing to drive that message throughout the whole quarter.
So we probably have already seen it on television; we are running ads that both talk about Chipotle as the brand and the total restaurant company as well as driving Carne Asada.
So – and what we've seen is the response has been positive to both messages.
So people are very much in tune with the idea of food with integrity, real culinary, real ingredients, cooking done right in front of them, as well as some new product menu news around Carne Asada.
And the good news is Chris and the marketing team, they've got a strong plan to finish the year that goes well beyond just products.
Chris O'Cull Okay, that's fair.
And then, Brian, would you talk about how the company to determine the appropriate number of unit openings for 2020 and what you would need to see to accelerate the number of openings?
Brian Niccol Yes, look, the good news is, there are plenty of sites and the economics would support going faster and doing more.
What we wanted to really make sure is we've got the people and capability in place and I think we're seeing more and more confidence as our stability has gone up, and as we've opened new restaurants, they continue to open really well.
So we're going to continue to build a really strong pipeline, which we have for next year, and if the opportunity presents itself to go a little faster, obviously we'll.
But I think I've been pretty consistent with this one, which is the key for us to continue to have great unit growth is to have great unit economics.
And I think that's what we're demonstrating is tremendous unit economics.
So I'm not surprising as the unit economics continue to improve.
There is more and more sites that are available for us and then now we've just added another lever called the Chipotlane, which I think is going to open even more sites for us in the future.
So we've been very purposeful to be – I think very measured in how we go about ramping up our new unit development.
But I think there is plenty of opportunity for us to grow from where we are today and what we probably will do in 2020.
Chris O'Cull Great.
Thanks.
Operator And our last question today will come from John Tower with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
John Tower Taking the question, just going back to the digital piece of the business, with digital and specifically order ahead mix moving higher as a percentage of your sales, does this potentially open up more opportunities on the menu over time?
I'm thinking specifically about your Quesadillas and how, at least when you're testing now requires about a 30-second cook time with new kitchen equipment.
So in a traditional store that might gum up throughput, but if you're doing Chipotlanes where you've got a greater mix of order ahead, obviously that seems to tie in better in that type of a store.
So does it potentially open up more opportunities for your menu?
Brian Niccol Look, I think it's great about the digital business and the digital make line is it does present the opportunity for us to look at opportunities that historically we may not have been able to look at, because I think you can use that make line in various ways, whether it's fulfilling directly digital orders or helping alleviate the front line.
So it's definitely something we're continuing to contemplate because it just presents a tremendous opportunity for us.
We've got now additional capacity with really great economics associated with that additional capacity.
We before was not be thinking about how we can drive, why can't we drive that harder and that's what the team focused on is how do we drive that harder because we like the results every time that business growth.
So – and I wouldn't just have it be the idea of just product.
I think there's other ways to drive people into that digital business and then ultimately leverage that digital make line.
John Tower Thank you.
Operator Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes our question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Brian Niccol for any closing remarks.
A - Brian Niccol Okay, thank you.
And thanks for all the questions and thanks for joining us today.
Obviously, where I started this conversation is, I'm tremendously proud of the Chipotle team, all of our team members in the field.
You don't deliver 7.5% transaction growth and an 11% comp unless you've got an organization that is all rolling together and I think the culture is tremendously strong, both in the support centers and in the restaurants, and I think what we've demonstrated with Carne Asada is we also now have a muscle where we can do new product innovation, as well as driving the digital system.
And I'm also really delighted about the unlock that I think Chipotlanes is going to present for us from our new unit opportunities going forward.
So a lot of growth opportunities in front of Chipotle, a tremendous quarter I think that the team delivered most recently and couldn't be prouder of where we are, but I'm also really excited about where we're going.
So thank you for joining us and we'll talk soon.
Take care.
Operator The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Under Armour, Inc. (NYSE:UAA) Q3 2019 Results Earnings Conference Call November 4, 2019 8:30 AM ET EPS of $0.23 beats by $0.04 Revenue of $1.43B (-0.94% Y/Y) beats by $13.94M  Company Participants Lance Allega - Senior Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Development Kevin Plank - Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Patrik Frisk - President and Chief Operating Officer David Bergman - Chief Financial Officer Conference Call Participants Alexandra Walvis - Goldman Sachs Jonathan Komp - Robert W. Baird Erinn Murphy - Piper Jaffray Randy Konik - Jefferies Edward Yruma - KeyBanc Capital Markets Robert Drbul - Guggenheim Securities Jim Duffy - Stifel Nicolaus Paul Lejuez - Citigroup Jay Sole - UBS Omar Saad - Evercore ISI Jared Orr - Cowen and Company Operator Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Under Armour, Inc. Third Quarter Earnings Webcast and Conference Call.
At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the speaker presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Mr. Lance Allega, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Thank you.
Please go ahead, sir.
Lance Allega Thank you and good morning everyone joining us for Under Armour's third quarter 2019 results earnings call.
On today's call, participants will make forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations and are subject to uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
These uncertainties are detailed in this morning's press release and documents filed regularly with the SEC, all of which can be found on our website at about.underarmour.com.
We may reference certain non-GAAP financial information including adjusted and currency-neutral terms, which are defined in this morning's release.
We do use non-GAAP amounts as the lead in some of our discussions because we feel that they more accurately represent the true operational performance and underlying results of our business.
You may also hear us refer to amounts in accordance with US GAAP.
Reconciliations of GAAP to non-GAAP measures can be found in the supplemental financial tables included in the press release, which identify and quantify all excluded items and provide management's view of why this information is useful to investors.
Joining us on today's call will be Under Armour's Chairman and CEO, Kevin Plank; President and COO, Patrik Frisk; and Chief Financial Officer, Dave Bergman.
Following our prepared remarks, we'll open the call for questions.
With that, I'll turn it over to Kevin.
Kevin Plank Thanks, Lance.
And good morning, everyone.
I'd like to start today's call by touching on the announcement we made a couple weeks back that effective January 1, 2020, I will be transitioning to Under Armour's Executive Chairman and Brand Chief and Patrik Frisk will become our Chief Executive Officer.
This was my decision and the culmination of a rigorous approach to succession planning in partnership with our Board of Directors.
Patrik's proven command of this business and the confidence we have about Under Armour's prospects as we shift from defense to offense.
Inside the most transformative three-year chapter in our history, as my direct partner, Patrik has helped strengthen the foundational elements of our current vision, mission, and values, and co-architected the strategic playbook we are currently executing against.
His demonstrative, transparent style of leadership, centered around a clear strategic vision, unparalleled discipline, and an outright passion for our brand positions us smartly to reach our goal of making Under Armour the best athletic brand in the world.
This transition will empower Patrik to have the freedom and oversight to holistically execute against our playbook.
Now, anchored by our strategic pillars of product, story service and team, we have been decisive in proactively improving underperforming areas of our business, while balancing the investments necessary to deliver sustainable, profitable growth over the long term.
And just like the athletes we serve, this journey is about getting better – better for our teammate, consumers, customers, and our shareholders.
At the center of this pursuit, the very reason we exist is our mission.
Under Armour makes you better.
A humble passioned obsession that has fueled our company for nearly a quarter of a century.
I am extremely proud of the powerful brand we have built, the global team that is our family, and the athletes we continue to serve by equipping and inspiring them to push beyond the boundaries of what is possible.
Being Under Armour means showing up with integrity every day, strapping on your HOVR Infinites, putting in the work, recognizing the scars while learning from them, celebrating the wins and looking to tomorrow where the hard work helps you get a little bit stronger, faster, and smarter.
All of this, of course, centers around three critical aspects of the brand – making great product that is authenticated to the power of sport, magnified by incredible storytelling and delivered by a team that loves this brand.
These three things define who we are, how we show up, and ultimately how we will maximize our long-term potential.
And moving forward, in my new role as brand chief, these are the areas where I will be focused to help reignite our growth.
Now, looking at 2019, we continue to execute the play with patience and discipline.
From a product perspective, with performance innovations like UA HOVR, Rush, and Recover, we know that when our product delivers SPF – that's Under Armour’s style, performance, and fit – we win with athletes.
Armed with a shortened go-to-market calendar, increasingly better segmented assortments, and a clear pipeline of innovation to come, we are building an arsenal that will continue to demonstrate why Under Armour is a choice alternative in an otherwise commoditized marketplace.
From a brand and storytelling perspective, where seamless physical and digital connectivity is table stakes for our consumer engagement, we have been working diligently to better activate our assets to drive the highest returns.
At the moments of training, competition, and recovery, we continue to see great potential in our ability to better personalize consumer touch points through a sharper, data-driven point of view.
And while we’ve certainly realized some success in product-specific marketing efforts over the past couple of years, 2020 will be the first year since our transformation began that we will have the ability to put the right resources combined with the scale behind our brand marketing efforts.
In 2020, you will see a more singular, powerful, rooted-in-performance brand voice that harmonizes with elevated product marketing, clearly and definitively telegraphing how Under Armour makes you better.
Now, earlier this year, on our first quarter call, I mentioned that if we were to see additional top line or gross margin expansion above our plan, we may choose to further invest in marketing and product initiatives to support building the brand against our long-term goals.
As we close out 2019, while there are some changes to the top line that Patrik and Dave will take you through, our gross margin is stronger than what we planned for just 90 days ago.
Along with ongoing cost efficiencies, we're taking this opportunity to proactively invest back into the brand through increased marketing spend, giving us a head start on 2020 and a deliberate shift from defense to offense for this brand.
This optionality should be seen as a sign that our efforts are beginning to pay off and a demonstration that we are committed to our long-term strategy.
And in that respect, I will close by underscoring that we are on track with the plan and metrics that we set forth at our investor day in 2018.
By staying disciplined and executing against this plan, we put ourselves in the best position to reignite growth to unlock the full potential of the Under Armour brand.
We will.
With that, I'll turn it over to Patrik.
Patrik Frisk Thanks, Kevin.
Good morning, everybody.
I might have a little bit of a coarse voice this morning, but we had ourselves one heck of a football game here in Baltimore last night.
So, I'm going to power through this thing.
So, when I joined Under Armour in the summer of 2017, the one thing that struck me was a companywide relentless pursuit of innovation and attention to detail and the outright grit that goes into making all athletes better.
This obsession is omnipresent and infused into our culture, one that prides itself on serving athletes and an unmistakable desire to win.
This same vigor has been applied in everything we've done over the past few years to continuously improve our operations and executional abilities.
And I'm pleased with the progress we're making.
And although we may see some puts and takes in the short term, there is no departure from our confidence in delivering on our long-term plan.
Our foundation continues to get stronger; our structure, process, systems, and leadership are in place; and our discipline and patience are steadfast as we work to wrap up 2019.
With respect to the announcement that I'll be assuming the role of CEO January 1, I am humbled and honored by the trust that both Kevin and our Board of Directors has placed in me.
Both professionally and personally, it's a perfect opportunity for me to blend more than 30 years' industry experience with my lifelong love of sport and human performance.
We are truly just getting started.
So, now, let's turn to our third quarter results.
I'll start by addressing three areas of our business that I'd like to focus on given our results – direct to consumer, footwear, and Asia-Pacific.
Starting with direct-to-consumer which came in slightly less than expected, third quarter revenue was down 1%, driven primarily by results in North America.
The reasons for reduced volume are very similar to our second quarter, with our outlet stores experiencing lower traffic, yet slightly higher conversion AUR.
In our e-commerce business, we continued to see higher traffic, but lower conversion with relatively flat AUR.
Independent from general traffic challenges in North American outlets, our full price stores are showing encouraging signs from some of the reset work that we're doing, including new brand house concepts that have recently launched.
For the full year, we now expect D2C to be up slightly.
Turning to footwear, revenue in the third quarter was down 12%, slightly lower than what we had planned.
As expected, this result was driven by softer demand, lower sales through the off-price channel, and improving service levels that are enabling us to meet customer demand in a timely manner.
Related to service levels, footwear shipments are distributed differently in 2019, with increased amounts in this year's second quarter compared to 2018.
As we think about our opportunity in footwear, our expectations have not changed.
We're playing the long game and the work we've done to recalibrate the business, reduce inefficient volume and improving segmentation across price points are enabling us to drive greater focus on prioritization into the categories where we believe we can win.
With a clear innovation pipeline delivered through a methodical launch cadence, along with an aligned go-to-market process that includes amplified marketing initiatives, we are confident in our ability to create a sustainable runway of growth moving forward.
The third area I wanted to address is Asia-Pacific, a region we remain incredibly excited and measured in our approach to growing the brand.
In the quarter, revenue was up 4% and included continued growth in our DTC channel from both new door openings and e-commerce.
And as we laid out in our last call, improved service levels across our international business, particularly with distributors, have seen shipments distributed differently in 2019, with increased amounts in this year's second and fourth quarters.
Additionally, compared to 2018, new store openings are more heavily weighted toward the fourth quarter.
Certainly, a little bit lumpy, but in line with expectations.
Now, moving on to the other regions.
Revenue in North America was down 4% in the quarter, which was in line with the outlook we provided on our last call.
As a reminder, the primary negative impact in the quarter was driven by lower sales to the off-price channel relative to last year.
On a positive note, within our wholesale business, excluding sales to the off-price channel, year-to-date, we've seen a slight increase in full price revenue, a good sign that the underlying business is trending healthier.
In EMEA, revenue was up 9%, driven by continued growth in our wholesale and direct consumer businesses.
Within wholesale, our results were positively impacted by improved service levels and earlier-than-planned shipments related to Brexit.
And finally, revenue in Latin America was down 4%, a result directly related to the change in our Brazilian business model.
Excluding Brazil, Latin America revenue was up slightly in the third quarter, driven by balanced growth in both wholesale and direct to consumer.
As a reminder, the business model change in Brazil occurred in the fourth quarter of 2018.
So, moving forward, this change won't impact the year-over-year comparisons.
So, before I wrap it up, I'd be remiss to not talk about the incredible progress we continue to make in inventory management.
Coming in well ahead of our expectations, we posted a 23% decline in inventory, improving service levels and much tighter buys to customer demand, coupled with product selling through at a rate higher than we had anticipated means we've had lower returns and, therefore, don't have as much excess product to sell in the off-price channel.
While Dave will provide more color in our full-year outlook, it is important to note that this shortfall in sales to the off-price channel is a contributing factor to our updated revenue outlook for the full year.
So, in closing, as we finish out 2019, I have never been more confident in the long-term strength of this brand, this team and our path forward.
Dave?
David Bergman Thank you, Patrik.
Let's dive right in.
Third quarter revenue was down 1% to $1.4 billion, while flat on a currency-neutral basis.
Clicking down by channel, our wholesale business was down 2% to $892 million, driven by planned lower sales to the off-price channel, timing shifts relative to distributor order flow and third-quarter impacts related to continued service level improvements which shifted some sales into the second and fourth quarters.
Direct to consumer revenue was down 1% to $463 million, which was slightly lower than expected due to continued traffic and conversion challenges, primarily in our North American outlet and e-commerce businesses.
Licensing was down 6% to $30 million, a result driven by softer demand from our partners in North America.
By product category, apparel revenue was up 1% to $986 million.
Footwear revenue was down 12% to $251 million, driven by the factors Patrik previously discussed.
Accessories revenue was up 2% to $118 million.
And our connected fitness business was up 22% to $39 million, primarily driven by higher subscription revenues and a one-time development fee from a partner.
To give a little more color here, along with our connected products continuing to drive increased brand strength, newly launched training plans for gym workouts and nutrition plans for premium members add to our growing confidence that we are building more sustainable momentum in this business.
From a regional perspective, North America was down 4% and our international business was up 5%, both in line with the outlook we provided on our last call.
Turning to gross margin.
We saw a 220 basis point improvement to 48.3% in the quarter.
Clicking into the positive factors, we realized approximately 90 basis points of channel mix benefits, primarily due to a lower mix of sale to the off-price channel; 80 basis points from continued supply chain initiatives related to favorable product costs and lower airfreight; and 40 basis points related to prior-year impact from restructuring efforts.
SG&A expense increased 4% to $551 million, which was better than expected due to our continued cost management efforts as well as unrealized marketing spend that will be utilized in the fourth quarter, coupled with lower-than-planned depreciation from timing of store openings and capital expenditures.
Third-quarter operating income was $139 million.
Interest and other expense net was $6 million.
And our effective tax rate for the third quarter was approximately 22%.
Taking this to the bottom line, net income was $102 million or $0.23 in diluted earnings per share.
On our balance sheet, we continue to make great progress.
Cash and cash equivalents were up 147% to $417 million.
Total debt was down 26% to $592 million.
Capital expenditures were up 10% to $21 million.
And as Patrik detailed, inventory was down 23% to $907 million, which was better than expected.
Turning to our 2019 outlook.
We now expect revenue to be up approximately 2% compared to our previous expectation of 3% to 4%, driven by lower-than-planned excess inventory to service the off-price channel, ongoing traffic and conversion challenges in direct to consumer, and continued negative impacts from changes in foreign currency.
Relative to gross margin, we now expect improvement of approximately 90 basis points to 110 basis points compared to our prior expectation of 70 basis points to 90 basis points in improvement compared to 2018 adjusted gross margin due to ongoing supply chain initiatives, including more favorable product cost and lower airfreight, coupled with additional channel mix benefits from lower off-price sales.
Lastly, recall that, in 2018, we had approximately 40 basis points of negative gross margin impact due to our restructuring efforts.
Therefore, on a GAAP basis, gross margin in 2019 should be up approximately 130 basis points to 150 basis points.
As we noted earlier, we have made the strategic decision to reinvest the portion of this upward revision in gross margin, along with underlying cost efficiencies, together approaching $20 million to fund incremental digital and marketing investments in the fourth quarter.
In this respect, we now anticipate holding SG&A flat as a percentage of revenue on a year-over-year basis.
Even with this additional investment, we are updating our full-year outlook for operating income to reach the high end of our previously given range of $230 million to $235 million.
Moving forward, our efforts to create greater efficiency, agility and leveraging our cost structure remains a key priority and focus for our company.
In this respect, we will continue to balance key long-term strategic investments with a disciplined commitment to driving operating margin rate improvement.
Interest and other expense net is planned at approximately $30 million and our effective tax rate is unchanged at approximately 22%.
We expect our diluted EPS to be at the high-end of our previously given range of $0.33 to $0.34 which includes about $0.01 of negative impact related to the performance of our licensee in Japan.
To provide a little more color there, our Japanese licensee is currently working to address a number of strategic and operational challenges and building out and beginning to execute against the plan.
And finally, given the continuing improvements in efficiencies we are experiencing within our supply chain, we now expect end-of-year inventory to be down at a low double-digit rate.
Now, I would like to take a moment to provide color on a few of the main drivers of our fourth quarter revenue growth expectations.
First, cleaner inventory positions and improving service levels around the world are enabling us to more efficiently meet our wholesale demand closer to need.
As anticipated all year, more timely delivery should serve as an incremental benefit to Q4 as we begin to ship product for spring floorsets.
Second is DTC.
With assumptions based on measured improvements in traffic, conversion and new door openings, also supported by an easier prior-year comparison in North America, we expect to see some Q4 improvement.
And finally, we expect our licensing business to be up in Q4 due to contractual royalty minimums, in addition to a settlement related to one of our North American partners.
Before we turn over the call to the operator for Q&A, I'd like to break from our typical company policy of not discussing any regulatory or litigation matters and briefly address an article published yesterday regarding an investigation by the SEC and the US Department of Justice.
We have been fully cooperating with these inquiries for nearly two-and-a-half years.
To this effect, we began responding back in July of 2017 to their request for documents and information.
We firmly believe that our accounting practices and disclosures were appropriate.
Now, back to the quarter at hand.
I'd underscore that we are staying disciplined, focused and methodical in our tactics, which includes delivering innovative premium product, amplifying our brand to connect even more deeply with our consumers and strategically managing our business with an eye toward constant operational excellence.
We have made great strides in our transformation.
Strides that are beginning to harness the energy, power and strength necessary to deliver prudently as we work to grow our brand over the long-term.
With that, we'll open up the call for your questions.
Operator?
Question-and-Answer Session Operator Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from Alex Walvis with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Alexandra Walvis Good morning, guys.
Thanks so much for taking the question this morning.
I wanted to start by digging into the change in revenue guidance a little bit.
So, you give three key reasons for the slightly lower revenue guide.
Could you possibly help us to size each of those in terms of its magnitude on the change?
And then, perhaps more specifically, on the North America backdrop as part of the driver of the lower guide, can you help us perhaps explain what's changed since we spoke last quarter in terms of outlet traffic or in terms of that online conversion which is weighing on sales growth a little bit?
David Bergman Sure Alex.
This is Dave.
First of all, relative to the updated guidance, we did talk about the three main drivers there.
Availability of excess inventory for the off-price channel is lower than we anticipated, also the weaker expectations on DTC and also the foreign exchange rates.
Quite frankly, all three of those are fairly similar in impact for us as we finish out the year.
There is not one that's really driving larger than the other relative to the updated guidance in Q4.
When we think about North America, in Q3, with the down 4%, the largest driver was the decline in the lower sales to the off-price channel.
DTC was a little weaker than expected, but then on the flipside, we were able to overdeliver a little bit on the wholesale side, some of that with the operational improvements we're driving.
And when you think about Q4, obviously, we're implying a higher growth rate in Q4.
Some of that is the service level improvements that we mentioned and being able to ship more of that spring product earlier in Q4 than previous Q4 in 2018, but also some of the DTC improvements to a degree.
The new commercial door concepts, which we're excited about, the amplified marketing that we've talked about, improved e-com fulfillment levels, and then also just having an easier comp for Q4 for North America as well.
So, a lot of different factors going into that.
Patrik, do you want to add some more color?
Patrik Frisk Well, I think I said a little bit in my script, the plan is still the plan, right?
We're in third quarter out of a 20-quarter plan.
And what we feel really good about is the leadership that's now in place in North America.
I think Stephanie has done a phenomenal job onboarding and is really hitting the ground running.
The continued stabilization and strengthening of the foundation, which gives us an opportunity to reinvest into the brand earlier than we had originally planned, which is very exciting for us, and we also feel very strongly about the actual content that we're going to deliver against that.
And then there's some good news like Dave said, right?
We have full price trending better which is great for us.
We're winning with the winners, we believe, in the marketplace.
We're growing where we need to grow.
And we feel good about how we have thought about Q4 in terms of being balanced there, so I hope that gives a little bit more color adding to what Dave said.
Alexandra Walvis That's helpful.
Thanks so much for the color.
One follow-up, if I may, on the reduced sales to off-price now planned for the year.
Can you help us to understand what's driving that?
Is it a better full price sell-through perhaps in the wholesale channel or is it kind of better supply chain operations than you had previously expected?
Patrik Frisk Hi, Alex.
It's Patrik again.
It's a combination of both.
So, we're able to service the business better as we go into the season.
In other words, delivering the right stuff to the right place at the right time.
The product is also better.
So, we believe that the type of product we're now putting into the marketplace, the fact that we have less old product on the shelves is helping drive the sales.
And then, ultimately, that then gives you less returns, right?
So, it's a combination of these three things that's really helping us now decrease the amount of inventory that we have for the off-price channel quicker than we first had anticipated.
Alexandra Walvis Fantastic.
Thanks very much for all the color.
Patrik Frisk Thank you, Alex.
Operator Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jonathan Komp with Baird.
Your line is now open.
Jonathan Komp Yeah.
Hi.
Thank you.
I want to first just follow-up on the North America business.
Can you just comment on where you expect that to fall for the full-year 2019?
And then, I think it's been three years of decline in top line for that business.
Do you expect, going forward, that you'll be able to reverse that trend?
David Bergman Hey, Jonathan.
This is Dave.
When you think about the full year, North America, we expect to be landing down slightly on the full year versus international, which should be up at a low double-digit rate.
Obviously, there's a lot of great things that we're working on.
We're excited about 2020, but we'll be giving more color on that in early February.
Jonathan Komp Okay, great.
And then, Dave, I wanted to just follow-up on your comment of the federal inquiries into the accounting practices, and really two questions.
I think, first, wanted to just ask maybe more insights on your view internally of materiality and any comments there relative to the presence of document requests for the last several years, but just hearing about it now.
And then secondly, could you just give a little more insight internally kind of the degree of resources being applied and any sense of distraction from any of the requests involved?
David Bergman Yeah.
Jonathan, we can certainly appreciate that you'd like us to provide more details regarding that matter.
However, we are prohibited from doing so.
That said, the most important message, I think, to convey is that we firmly believe that our past accounting practices and disclosures were entirely appropriate, and we've been fully cooperating for the past two-and-a-half years on this.
So, now, we're focused on 2020 and beyond.
We feel like our foundation is strong and we're looking forward to reigniting the Under Armour brand as we continue into the next chapter.
And we'll leave it at that for now.
Jonathan Komp Okay, understood.
Patrik Frisk Thank you, Jonathan.
David Bergman Thank you, Jonathan.
Operator Thank you.
Our next question comes from Erinn Murphy with Piper Jaffray.
Your line is now open.
Erinn Murphy Great.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I guess, first, bigger picture question.
If you guys round out year three of your initial turnaround plan, you guys have done a really nice job of keeping inventory lean, hitting your bottom line despite just broader macro noise.
But kind of to the point of the first question, sales has been a little bit light.
So, what accelerates sales from here?
And are there any tweaks that you need to make to the five-year plan that you provided last year?
Patrik Frisk Hi, Erinn.
This is Patrik.
Thanks for the question.
I love that question because I can answer it very confidently that the plan remains the plan.
And if you remember, at the investor day, we laid out that 20-quarter plan and the Protect This House timeframe that we're currently in, that we're turning the corner to in 2020.
Nothing has changed there.
There are, short-term, a few puts and takes here and there.
But, ultimately, we're still confident in that plan.
And when you do these kind of turnarounds, it takes time because you have to actually work through the calendar.
Unfortunately, it's kind of a – the way it works when you enter into a 22, 24-month calendar and you start to do the work.
We feel really good about how we think about the future of this brand, all the work and the foundation that we've done.
And we're going to continue to work through that plan.
And as we turn the corner now into the Perform With Balance chapter, which is the next chapter, we feel we have the product, we have the marketing, we have the team to be able to really drive the business more going forward.
So, we're happy about it.
Kevin Plank Erinn, let me just weigh in on that as well that I covered in my script.
First of all, big picture, we know that great brands endure.
So, our job is continue to remind ourselves and demonstrating wider world to see Under Armour as that it were special and the reason that we exist.
We've talked about the ability for us to start playing offense.
And I mentioned that in my prepared comments as well about moving and creating room that we can actually begin to invest here in the fourth quarter, and especially as we turn the corner into 2020 that we're going to be even more aggressive where you'll finally – I guess gives the ability to see the benefits of the true go-to-market with strategy, supply chain, product, marketing, sales, all hitting and amplifying at the same time.
So, we know that we're not expecting perfection at the first time.
That version 2 will always be better than version 1, but you're about to see a really harmonized play come from this company and something we'll be able to deliver on a consistent basis due to the culture and the process that we've been able to implement and put into this brand.
So, we are looking to light our brand up more effectively and holistically since our transformation began and where the new criteria that we have for that is using data really as a high accelerant into how we're making those decisions and it's really smart about the way we're spending our money.
So, we are continuing to work on quieting our company and amplifying our brand and we really look forward to that happening in 2020.
Erinn Murphy Great, thank you both for that response.
And then just a follow-up.
Maybe, Kevin, for you.
Just – and kind of how you answered that last question, but can you just share a little bit more about the pace in innovation in 2020 both on the apparel and footwear side.
Just anything you can share with us today on what some of those stories that we can be expecting.
Thank you so much.
Kevin Plank I think we've got so many franchises that we have at the company, beginning with the fundamentals and the foundation of the basics – heat care and cold care.
It's amazing how much smarter we get as the weather started to turn here in the last week or so, watching things begin to accelerate for us, is that's such an anchor and aspect for our business.
But I think it's really holistic.
I think this is part of the process we've had in the go-to-market of truly setting up this funnel of technology and innovation that points toward specific date where we can either, A, launch or announce building that franchise with things to be done, like Curry, Rock product, HOVR, our overall training line, and then also being able to do it and talk about it through amplified moments of things like building spacesuits through the new Virgin Galactic program and taking eight technologies we have in our in-line commercial products that we're demonstrating are capable of going to space.
And so, I think innovation is the heart and soul, and I think it speaks to the focus and the commitment that we have to the athlete of us really narrowing the range and the target that we have for our consumer of identifying it as this focused performer.
And so, building product for them that will help them train, compete and recover in is going to really be our difference, I think.
And I think you see it showing up.
You see it showing up in sports marketing.
And whether it was, as Patrik mentioned, the Patriots and the Ravens going at it last night here in our backyard and watching the excellence of a Tom Brady who we continue to help drive and innovate with athletes like that in that perspective or if it's relative teenagers like Soto for the nationals, winning the World Series last week.
The innovation, I think the commitment to this brand is really consistent and one you'll continue to see come from us over and over.
So, we've got platforms, we have franchises, we continue to have an innovation pipeline that we're really excited about and it only gets stronger and stronger going forward.
Erinn Murphy Thank you.
Operator Thank you.
Our next question comes from Randy Konik with Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
Randy Konik Hey, thanks.
I guess, Patrik and Kevin, I agree, great brands endure.
Just want to get your perspective.
There's other lesser enduring brands that kind of can create some noise in the marketplace.
One of those, you see in the youth market.
Lower-priced has been gaining some traction for some time.
How do you think about those lesser enduring brands that are – that can come and go?
How are they impacting the market from a pricing perspective, wholesale order perspective?
Where are we in that kind of cycle from your perspective with these other one or two lesser-known brands that are kind of impacting the market, particularly on the apparel side right now?
Just want to get your perspective there first.
Thanks.
Patrik Frisk Hi, Randy.
This is Patrik.
I think I'll kick it off and I'll see if my partner here wants to chime in.
You know what's interesting with our transformation has been this evolution in terms of how we think about creating product and services for a specific consumer mindset that's really allowed us as an organization to become incredibly consumer-centric.
And this has been an evolution over the last two years.
It's not that the company wasn't consumer centric before.
It's just that we're now able to use data, like Kevin said, much more purposefully to actually understand what matters to this consumer.
So, when we think about other brands that are coming up or entering into the marketplace in a category or in a space, there's an opportunity today, of course, to do that more easily than ever before.
But there's also some really big hurdles once you get to get some scaling in terms of sourcing and an ability to innovate long-term where we believe that we now have set up an ability to understand what problems we're trying to solve for and how to actually make our focused performer better.
That is now taking on a whole new scientific level that I believe is going to be a game changer for the company going forward that I don't believe that these smaller companies can sustain to the same degree that we can because size actually does matter in this space, especially when the stakes are as high as they for brands like us where we play on the national and international fields every day.
So, we feel very, very good about how we've transformed ourselves from just making great products to actually making great product for a specific consumer, driven by data and an incredible attention to detail and process.
I don't know, Kevin, do you want to chime in because you've got the history here?
Kevin Plank Yeah.
I'll take it a step back maybe and sort of reflect on what it means of where we find success.
Today marks the 56th earnings call that I've participated on.
And when I think and reflect on that, it's how much of the external noise that continues to come at a public company, yet the ability of how we manage that.
And more importantly, how we put the blinders on to focus on ourselves and not be concerned about the others of the outside and either who's above or who could be below.
But really what this relentless sort of energy and probably mild paranoia of always thinking about what's next and how we can obsess on the next great product and for us to be the first to deliver it for you.
And I don't think that's changed at all.
I think what we have now is where we were built by many forces of personality and forces of energy and forces of will to underlie and underpin that with really the world's most dedicated team and processes and systems that can keep up with it and do it on a repeatable basis, is a position we're in now.
And so, whoever the competition is, be it above or be it below, we're prepared for it.
But most importantly, we understand that our criticality toward success, the definition of what will actually get us there, is our ability to focus on ourselves to block out the noise and to keep marching forward and always going through.
You'll see that and feel that from this brand today and you'll continue to see that through 2020 going forward.
And I can't wait for the future.
Randy Konik Great.
And then, can I ask you just for some clarity on footwear side of things.
It sounds like the reduction of sales into the off-price channel impacted the growth rate of that category.
So, how do you guys think about normalized growth rate of the footwear category going forward and discuss some of the wins and losses in the category?
Obviously, HOVR seems like to be a nice win for you guys from a platform perspective.
Just curious on how we can think about the long-term growth algorithm of the footwear business going forward.
Thanks, guys.
Patrik Frisk I'll start off.
Dave, maybe you want to chime in.
But, ultimately, for us, footwear is playing the long game.
We talked a little bit about innovation here earlier today and how well we have been able to place the HOVR platform in the marketplace, in the run performance marketplace specifically, and how successful that's been.
It's taught us a lot.
And I think the teams now have a much better understanding of what it takes to do an orchestrated disciplined play in the footwear space, which is very different than what it is in the apparel space.
But we've also been reducing inefficient volumes throughout this year.
And especially in Q3, we're annualizing some off-price coming out of 2018.
There's some shift in timing between Q2 and Q4 this year.
Ultimately, for our footwear this year, we're expecting to grow.
We're flat year-to-date and we're expecting to grow in 2019 and we expect that to accelerate as go into the out-years.
And we're very encouraged by what's happening in our performance run and also in our women's training footwear.
So, you're seeing a bit of a shift in terms of the footwear portfolio, if you like, that we have this year, but we have, like Kevin alluded to earlier here, a very, very strong belief in our footwear innovation pipeline going forward.
I don't know, Dave, do you want to add some color?
David Bergman Yeah.
I guess I would just – quick reminder, the Q3 growth rate down 12%.
We had expected Q3 was going to be a lower growth rate for the reasons that we already mentioned.
And as we think back to investor day and expecting that footwear growth from a CAGR perspective long-term is going to be a fair amount higher than apparel, possibly double apparel, we still believe in that and we've got the momentum for that.
So, we're excited about talking about that further in early February.
Randy Konik Thank you, guys.
David Bergman Thank you.
Operator Thank you.
Our next question comes from Edward Yruma with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Edward Yruma Hey.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
I guess just first, kind of a housekeeping question.
I know you're not guiding to 2020, but just maybe contextualize how much the improved service level is showing into 4Q, so we could start to think about, I guess, our 1Q estimate correctly.
And then second, bigger picture.
Kevin, I know we've talked a little bit about footwear.
How pleased have you been with the follow through on HOVR.
And then, I guess, some of your competitors have multiple kind of cushioning lines.
I guess, when can we expect something similar from Under Armour?
Thank you.
David Bergman Yeah.
This is Dave.
We have talked a lot this year about the improving service levels, which we're really excited about.
And when you think about shipments towards the end of June and shipments towards the end of December, that's when those impacts of the improving service levels can really benefit us.
And that's we're anticipating for Q4.
So, it is something that we've been forecasting for quite a while at this point.
We're expecting that to continue when we think about Q4 of 2020.
So, from a full-year perspective next year, that's all considered.
Although we're excited about 2020 and where we're going, where we're driving, we're going to hold further comment on that until the first week of December.
But, Patrik, if you want to add more to or Kevin?
Kevin Plank Edward, let me address that because I think you bring up a good, valid point.
Starting as an apparel company, it had us adjusting to what does it mean to make footwear.
And from the learning curve, going back to 2002, making my first trips to – speaking to the right footwear factories, of understanding how we can be there and be effective, of knowing what that would mean and the time that it would take.
So, the investment we've made there is extraordinary and we're now set to run.
And all the way down to the things that make it important from an innovation standpoint of having the right products, making sure that we're segmenting correctly, the distribution, truly a holistic approach to how we're thinking about it.
So, today, we stick with roughly four, we call, midsole technologies for our footwear.
Micro G, Charged, HOVR and something we've just launched actually in a truly segmented manner, which is called Liquify.
So, we are continuing to invest on this and you'll see more midsole technologies come to bear in 2020 as well going forward.
And just watching the evolution, the sophistication really begin to build in our footwear capability is something that's frankly taken us 15 years to get to this point, but we're ready to run and we understand what it can mean as we continue to unlock footwear, having the right product, the right time, the right price, we believe that we are truly going to be a player there and take this billion plus dollar business that does something really important.
Patrik Frisk Yeah, it's a great question.
And it's a really important one in footwear.
And to Kevin's point, we have four different technologies today.
And it's really important to us in terms of how that has enabled us to think about segmentation as well this year, to some extent, but even more so going forward.
We believe there is an opportunity for us to add some additional cushioning technology at the very high end of the spectrum.
So, we're going to be focused on doing that in the very near future, but we believe that the unlock for footwear for any company is to be able to drive franchises on these platforms.
We've demonstrated that we now are starting to understand how to do that and that is definitely, to Kevin's point, one of the unlocks for the company going forward.
Edward Yruma Great.
Thanks so much, guys.
Kevin Plank Thank you, Ed.
Operator Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bob Drbul with Guggenheim.
Your line is now open.
Robert Drbul Hey, guys.
Good morning.
Just two questions for me.
I think the first one is, when you look at the North American market and your performance there, do you have a sight line on when you think you can return to positive growth in North America?
And then, the second question that I have is, can you just update us on the margin differential in footwear and apparel and if you've been able to really close the gap between the two?
Thanks.
Patrik Frisk Thanks, Bob.
I'll start this off and I'll hand it off to Dave and he'll give you a little color on the margins.
As we think about North America, we haven't changed our thoughts in any way compared to what we told you guys at the investor day in December last year.
There's a time horizon to how we think about those things.
And a lot of that starts with leadership.
We have what we believe strong leadership in place.
We have a strong go-to-market .
We have started to really see the effects of cleansing ourselves in our wholesale channel.
We've seen the early success of opening three new brand houses full price in North America in the last quarter.
That's the first time we do that in a very, very long time.
All three of them are performing at or above plan, which gives us great encouragement for the additional ones we're going to open up next year.
And it also shows us that when we show up in the right way as a brand to the end consumer in full price, with the entire breath of our innovation and our brand for them, they respond, which is very encouraging to us.
So, I think a combination of the work that we're doing in wholesale, the addition of a better work we're doing in our full price stores in North America, in combination with moving on to a new e-com platform and new e-com site next year that's going to greatly enhance our ability to service the customer and layering on top of that the additional marketing that we plan to do.
So, we're very excited about the fact that we're going to actually start doing that earlier at the back half of this year, which is a few months earlier than we would have hoped.
And a lot of that comes on the back of the stable foundation, the hard work to make sure that we're really doing the work that needs to happen in terms of driving the business the right way.
And with that, I'll hand over to Dave and he'll give you a little color on the margins.
David Bergman Yeah.
Bob, relative to gross margin, we have been working hard driving footwear forward.
Some of that is volume.
Some of that is the costing improvements we've been driving through with the supply chain efficiencies and the new go-to-market process.
So, over the last few years, we continue to drive forward and increase our footwear gross margin.
So, we are closing that gap versus apparel.
But it is still a pretty substantial gap at this point.
But we are definitely chipping away at it every single year.
We're gaining anywhere from 100 basis points to 200 basis points each year on the gross margin increase for footwear.
So, we're going to keep driving their forwarding and continue to close that gap.
Thank you Bob.
Operator Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jim Duffy with Stifel.
Your line is now open.
Jim Duffy Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
First one for me, I wanted to ask about gross margin.
You're tracking ahead of pace there.
To what extent, guys, do you view that as a pull forward of benefits versus reflective of a new foundation upon which you can continue to see improvement?
And what are some of those key levers for improvement as we look around the corner to next year and beyond?
David Bergman Yeah, Jim.
This is Dave.
As you think about what we delivered in Q3, obviously, we mentioned the bigger ones, with the lower off-price sales in the quarter and also the continuing supply chain initiatives of product cost and airfreight.
There are a couple of smaller puts and takes too.
We saw some smaller benefits from higher connected fitness mix.
And so, as you think about what's driving in the Q4, continued channel mix benefits with licensing and a higher DTC mix will help us out in Q4.
The supply chain initiatives are probably the biggest one that carry through the whole year.
including Q4, and we expect to carry into 2020 as well with the product costs and lower air freight.
So, we're continuing to drive on all those.
And then, as we've mentioned on many of our previous calls, we continue to work towards stepping down our mix of off-price channel, and that's something that we'll continue to do as we step into 2020.
So, a lot of the tailwinds that we're seeing this year with product costing, with air freight, with stepping off the off-price channel, with higher DTC mix, all of those things should continue to drive forward as we going into 2020 and beyond.
Jim Duffy Okay, great.
And then, you spoke to a planned step up in brand marketing, turn from defense to offense.
Can you guys maybe foreshadow some of the marketing initiatives we should be looking for in fourth quarter and into 2020?
Is it going to be more brand specific or product specific?
Are you planning to spend more digital or more through traditional marketing channels?
Any color there would be helpful.
Thanks.
Patrik Frisk Yeah.
thanks, Jim.
This is Patrik.
What's really exciting about what we're going to do in Q4 is we're able to spend against more upper funnel brand marketing, which is helpful for us as we'll take learnings from that and enable a more precise spend, if you like, in 2020.
But in 2020, it's all going to be about a 360-degree approach to marketing.
So, over the last two-and-a-half years, we've been building capabilities to be competing with other people in our space in terms of how to think about everything from digital to social media, to out of home, whatever you want, and understanding that impact and effect it will have on the consumer that we're focused on.
We weren't able to do that necessarily three or four years ago because we didn't have the capabilities.
We have diligently been putting those capabilities in place and we're now starting to understand much better how to unleash them.
And that's truly what you'll see in 2020, is a coordinative play, like Kevin said, where we'll go and market ourselves across every channel that we need to market ourselves across to make sure that we're increasing consideration with the consumer.
So, it'll be a holistic approach to both upper funnel marketing and also sports moments marketing where you'll see Under Armour show up, where our athletes show up.
And so, we're very excited about that.
So, we're really starting the journey in terms of how to think about that little earlier this year, taking the learnings to apply them to do an even better job for 2020.
Kevin Plank And, Jim, just a little perspective on that too.
I'd say, Patrik and I will probably be in alignment that we haven't done that type of top-of-funnel storytelling to our consumer in several years.
And so, bringing this back, getting this amplitude – when you're looking for the from/to of what's different now versus what can we expect differently going forward is you're going to hear about this brand, you're going to hear us tell our story.
That's for sure.
Patrik Frisk Yeah.
That's a great way to say it.
Randy Konik Great.
Thank you.
Kevin Plank Thanks very much.
Operator Thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Lejuez with Citi Research.
Your line is now open.
Paul Lejuez Hey, guys.
Paul Lejuez.
Can you give a little bit more color on the deceleration in the APAC segment?
Just the deceleration you've seen in the first half of the year, any color that you can add by country in terms of where you've seen the biggest drop off, how you're thinking about 4Q and into next year?
And then, second, curious what drove the CapEx guidance lower for the year.
Was there any of that that was a timing shift and just how you're thinking about CapEx for next year as well?
Thanks.
David Berman Sure, Paul.
This is Dave.
Relative to APAC, the 4% growth in Q3, we had always planned that this was going to be our lowest quarter of the year for APAC.
From a channel perspective, DTC does continue to drive growth in both retail and e-commerce which has been great.
But timing of shipments have been a little bit more out of Q3 relative to flow with the distributor orders.
So, it's more Q2 and Q4 heavy.
And then, also with the improved service levels, we're delivering more to the actual demand which puts a little bit more in Q2 and Q4 as well.
And you can kind of expect that, going forward, as you think about 2020, that the quarterly fall will be a little bit more normalized because those distributor revenues are going to be more heavily weighted in Q2 and Q4.
We also have bigger e-commerce events that are normally in Q2 and Q4 as well.
When you think about kind of driving forward through Q4, international, in general, we're continuing to see those improving service levels which is great.
We have a larger amount of door openings in Q4, both partner and own doors.
And then, also as Patrik mentioned, we finally normalized the Latin America business with that Brazil model change that we've been discussing.
So, a lot of factors going into that and seeing that growth for Q4.
When you think about CapEx, to your question there, a couple of things that we've changed a little bit.
The full year, we're still driving hard as far as investments in DTC expansion, new APAC office investments, APAC and LatAm SAP investments, all well within our investor day operating principle range of 3% to 5% of revs.
When you think about some of the things that brought down – why we're guiding -- lowered the 180, some of that is around store build cost efficiencies which have been great to drive through.
Some of it's timing of digital initiatives, timing of office renovations and related efficiencies.
And then also, some cost savings as we completed our new distribution center here in Baltimore, but some different puts and takes there.
Paul Lejuez Yeah.
Just one follow up on APAC.
Anything you'd talk about on country.
If you want to take about it in terms of point of sale, where are you seeing the strongest response to product?
Maybe talk China specifically, progress there.
Anything you can you give on a country by country basis.
Thanks.
Patrik Frisk Yeah.
hi, Paul.
This is Patrik.
When we think about APAC, we're very happy with the performance across APAC actually.
And I think the investments we've made that Dave alluded to, which has been expanding the China office and also putting our new Hong Kong headquarter in place, has really enabled our leadership teams there to continue the work that we're doing to really penetrate the market through category and also distribution in terms of opening stores.
As we told you guys at investor day, we're on plan to do exactly that, but also working hard to protect the premium positioning of the brand.
And we have been evolving the China business model over the past couple of years, and we're now in a place where we believe we have a really strong foundation in terms of our distributors doing a great job for us there.
The leadership team is in place.
So, we feel really good.
And I think as an added thing too, I think as it relates to the APAC, we're also very happy with our sourcing model that we have.
Only having about 10% of our product that comes into the US being sourced out of China.
So, we're protected from that perspective as well.
So, I think both the front end and the backend is working incredibly well for us in APAC.
Paul Lejuez Thanks, guys.
Good luck.
Patrik Frisk Thank you.
Operator Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jay Sole with UBS.
Your line is now open.
Jay Sole Great.
Thank you so much.
Kevin, just want to ask you about how your day-to-day will change now that your title has changed.
If you'd give us some more color on that.
And then, secondly, I know you guys don't talk about weather's impact in 3Q, but it was like the warmest September, I think, [indiscernible].
I wondered if that has an impact on your business.
And then, Kevin, you did mention that you've seen the business accelerate in the last couple of weeks.
I assume that's weather related.
Can you just talk about what cold weather through November might mean to the business relative to the guidance that you gave?
And that's it for me.
Thank you.
Kevin Plank Yeah.
Thank you, Jay.
So, let me just start by adding some clarity around the decision why, how I got here, 47 year old, what does that mean.
My goal is to build – our goal is to build an eternal brand.
And we're not going to stop until that happens which, obviously, that's a long – that's a self-fulfilling prophecy that's going to keep going forever.
You've got to get the flywheel going.
And I believe that we started that.
But it's also thinking about something that we can do with the brand.
As I say, great brands do endure.
But setting this up truly for the long term.
Patrik and my partnership has really grown over the last several years.
Having the ability to bring in – and I'm really proud of being able to find someone like Patrik who had the perfect balance of industry experience and expertise with, frankly, just professional maturity, being able to come in and handle a situation where we had to lead into heavy transformation for ourselves as a business and as a brand and going through the last two or three years of really right-sizing this business, getting ourselves in line and seeing some of those benefits come through as things as clear as whether it's inventory or gross margin improvement as reducing what we're doing of taking down – as we're looking for off-price, of just getting our inventory levels clean and really getting ourselves structured.
And the professionalization of the company wasn't meaning that we weren't professional before.
It's just taking your company from $5 billion to $10 billion is really different step.
I want to be clear is that I love Under Armour and it is now today, tomorrow, will always remain my full-time priority and job.
I also want to be clear that this is my decision for all those reasons that I've just mentioned and gone through.
And what I think what we have now is the strength that Patrik and I have combined, really creates a force that, I think, is unmatched in our industry and I think it's really unique for business as a whole.
And so, the way that we balance that and that we work together tirelessly with each other on communication and making sure that we're aligned, but also making sure that Patrik has the freedom and the ability to lead and do the part that he can, running the day-to-day aspects of the business and really running and managing the business.
It will be a partnership.
It will continue to move forward.
But as I said, there's three places where I think I'm going to have the best impact and it's not going to be from sort of the, I don't know, how do you say, HR and legal and some of those things, with the ability for me to really focus on the elevating product, amplifying our story, really empowering our team and really simplifying my job description to that of just obsessing on product.
I've got to spend more than a dozen hours last week in our product line review, and it was just terrific.
I brought home one of the shoes, a new product technology we should have out.
And I stared at this thing all weekend.
It's just the ability for us to think like that in that capacity, I think, is one of the aspects we'd be unlocking.
So, we do pretty well and we put our backs to each other and face that and we're looking forward to that fist fight.
Jay Sole Great.
And then, if you could just talk about the question on the weather in 3Q and 4Q, what you've seen in terms of the acceleration in the last couple of weeks, that would be great.
Thank you.
Kevin Plank Yeah.
So, Jay, maybe I can add a little color to that.
I think we've seen a gradual acceleration in the back half of this year as there is not just the weather, but actually our execution that's coming to play here too.
And we believe that, as we turn the corner into 2020, we're going to be even more well positioned to benefit from the executional aspect of putting the play together, now supporting also with a little bit more purposeful and heavy up marketing effort.
Jay Sole Got it.
Okay.
Thank you so much.
Kevin Plank Thank you, Jay.
Patrik Frisk Thank you, Jay.
Operator Thank you.
Our next question comes from Omar Saad with Evercore ISI.
Your line is now open.
Omar Saad Thank you for taking my questions.
Two questions.
First one, I wanted to ask about, last quarter, you had mentioned weaning the consumer of some of the online promotions have been a little bit of a challenge and a drag on the business a little bit.
Can you give us an update on where we are on promotionality and getting the customer a little bit more used to the fact that Under Armour is not going to be as on sale that it has been in the last couple of years?
And then, I have a follow-up for Kevin.
Patrik Frisk Yeah, sure.
Hi, Omar.
This is Patrik.
Yeah, that is a balance as you go through the turnaround, if you like, or the transformation.
And as you're trying to wash through some of the excess, there's a time component to that, of course, and you're not immune to what's going on around you in the marketplace.
And what we're trying to do as a company is really balancing the two and we'll continue to do so and it's a gradual process.
We think we have a good plan for how to do that in beyond 2019 and it will be a gradual process for us.
But, ultimately, what we've been saying all along has been that we're going to drive this brand to a more premier positioning again and we're absolutely determined to do that.
So, we'll add a little bit more color perhaps in the next call on that, but I think it's something that we're looking forward to.
And depending on where you are in the world and what channel you're in, we're more or less successful with that, and it depends a lot on the type of inventory that we have in the channel.
Omar Saad Thanks.
That's helpful.
And then, Kevin if I could ask one last question of you.
Congrats to you both, by the way.
You talked a lot about product and it sounds like you're going to be a lot more focused and that sounds where a lot of your passion lies.
Maybe you could talk a little bit at a higher level how the Under Armour approach to building product, product lines and platforms has evolved from the earlier days and how your role will fit in?
Thanks.
Kevin Plank Yeah.
Thank you, Omar.
I think just adding some holistic perspective to what's happened over the last several years here – and we use the word transformation.
Really repositioning our business, restructuring, reorganizing, reshadowing the processes, so that we can be clear and make sure that there's not double work happening as we just get as efficiently and lean as possible.
You can tell that my energy, of course, it fits within the dream and the vision that we have for product, but one of the best things we did is we implemented a go-to-market process.
We implemented a global operating model and creating the four regions with APAC, EMEA, Latin America and North America.
We also went to category management, which really allows us to put the consumer at the center of everything we do, both men's and women's to allow us to really align ourselves.
And this process is – I've mentioned before, heard people talk about sort of that growth of getting to $5 billion.
Getting to $5 billion was something that we roughly got close to it around 2016 and then we've been fighting.
And since that time, since the end of 2016, we're telling you that we're going to grow our revenues nearly half a billion dollars over that period of time through all this transformation and some of the things we've had to do with the restructuring charges, the pain that we had to go through with things like risk for our teammates, of just getting this business set up and organized.
I think we say really quieting the company and amplifying the brand, that is truly the goal that we have for this next chapter.
And I really feel like we're set up for it.
We just need to start running the play and running the same play over and over, which is why decisions like, that to be done eventually should be done immediately.
I'm thinking about Patrik and the ability that he's brought to our team and looking and saying that he can be a better CEO at this point in time than I could be.
And being able to I think always put the brand first.
And I think that's where we are right now from a structure standpoint.
And it is something that we can look out several years and say there's no imminent change.
As Patrik likes to say, the plan is still the plan.
You see our management team.
You see the structure we have in place.
We're calling the play and now it's a matter of us executing.
And the good thing about this, there isn't a massive change coming.
It's a matter of us just putting our heads down and really going to work, and that's what we look forward to doing, I think, in this next chapter as we head and move in through the end of 2019 and really head forward into 2020.
So, Under Armour is ready to run.
It's tough getting to $5 billion, I'll tell you, in this industry.
It's a reason why there's only a couple, three or four companies that have done it at this point.
But we're looking forward to the next chapter and we're set up and we're ready to build and be that great brand that we talk about so often.
Omar Saad Thank you.
Best of luck.
Kevin Plank Thank you very much.
Patrik Frisk Thanks, Omar.
Operator Thank you.
And our next question comes from John Kernan with Cowen.
Your line is now open.
Jared Orr Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
This is Jared Orr on for John.
You gave some cover surrounding the shifts out of Q3 into the Q2 and Q4 based on the service improvements.
I was wondering if you either quantify that or talk about what products that that is benefiting and what geographies?
David Bergman Yeah, Jared.
This is Dave.
We don't actually quantify that.
We're just trying to give a little bit of extra color.
The majority of that, we've expected as we planned out the year.
A fair amount of it is international with distributor flow and that being more heavily weighted to Q2 and Q4, but then also, again, those service levels improvements, when you think about the product that we would be shipping in late June, early July and the product we ship in late December versus early January, those are the two phases where improving service levels can be most impactful in a good way.
And it's the play we want to continue to run as we go into 2020.
So, those amounts are not dramatic, but they're not that we want to note and give extra color around that and we're going to continue to drive forward and, hopefully, we can continue to operationally improve each month as we move forward.
Jared Orr Thanks.
One quick follow-up.
Are you guys taking any pricing, especially with the tariffs coming forward?
David Bergman Right now, we're in a very good position.
We've been very proactive starting years back and kind of mitigating the amount that we import into the US from China.
So, we feel pretty good about that.
Relative to all the enacted tariff policies that are out there with List 3 and List 4A and 4B, all of that's considered in our outlook and we feel like we're in a really good spot.
So, we're working with our vendors and continue to drive forward in our sourcing strategy.
But we're well prepared for it.
Jared Orr Yeah, thank you.
David Bergman Thank you.
Operator Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
NVIDIA Corporation (NASDAQ:NVDA) Q2 2020 Earnings Conference Call August 15, 2019 5:30 PM ET EPS of $1.24 beats by $0.09 Revenue of $2.58B (-17.42% Y/Y) beats by $32.43M  Company Participants Simona Jankowski - Investor Relations Jen-Hsun Huang - President and Chief Executive Officer Colette Kress - Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Conference Call Participants C.J.
Muse - Evercore Vivek Arya - Bank of America Merrill Lynch Toshiya Hari - Goldman Sachs Harlan Sur - JPMorgan Timothy Arcuri - UBS Matt Ramsay - Cowen Joe Moore - Morgan Stanley Aaron Rakers - Wells Fargo Stacy Rasgon - Bernstein Research Operator Good afternoon.
My name is Christina, and I will be your conference operator today.
Welcome to NVIDIA’s financial results conference call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Simona Jankowski from Investor Relations to begin your conference.
Simona Jankowski Thank you.
Good afternoon, everyone and welcome to NVIDIA’s conference call for the second quarter of fiscal 2020.
With me on the call today from NVIDIA are Jen-Hsun Huang, President and Chief Executive Officer and Colette Kress, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I would like to remind you that our call is being webcast live on NVIDIA’s Investor Relations website.
The webcast will be available for replay until the conference call to discuss our financial results for the third quarter of fiscal 2020.
The content of today’s call is NVIDIA’s property.
It can’t be reproduced or transcribed without our prior written consent.
During this call, we may make forward-looking statements based on current expectations.
These are subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties, and our actual results may differ materially.
For a discussion of factors that could affect our future financial results and business, please refer to the disclosure in today’s earnings release, our most recent Form 10-K and 10-Q and the reports that we may file on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
All our statements are made as of today, August 15, 2019, based on information currently available to us.
Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update any such statements.
During this call, we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures.
You can find a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures in our CFO commentary, which is posted on our website.
With that, let me turn the call over to Colette.
Colette Kress Thanks, Simona.
Q2 revenue was $2.58 billion, in line with our outlook, down 17% year-on-year and up 16% sequentially.
Starting with our gaming business, revenue of $1.31 billion was down 27% year-on-year and up 24% sequentially.
We are pleased with the strong sequential growth in the quarter when we launched our RTX SUPER lineup for desktop gamers, wrapped up our greatest ever number of gaming laptops and launched our new RTX studio laptops for creators.
In July, we unveiled 3 GeForce RTX SUPER GPUs, delivering the best-in-class gaming performance and power efficiency and real-time ray tracing for both current and next-generation games.
These GPUs delivered a performance boost of up to 24% from our initial Turing GPUs launched a year earlier.
The SUPER lineup strengthens our leadership in the high end of the market and the response has been great.
We look forward to delighting gamers with the best performance in ray tracing as we get into the back to school and holiday shopping seasons.
Ray tracing is taking the gaming industry by storm and have quickly come to define the modern era of computer graphics.
A growing number of blockbuster AAA titles have announced support for NVIDIA RTX ray tracing, including Call of Duty: Modern Warfare, Cyberpunk 2077, Watch Dogs: Legion and Wolfenstein: Youngblood.
Excitement around these titles is tremendous.
GameSpot called Cyberpunk one of the most anticipated games of the decade.
NVIDIA GeForce RTX are the only graphic cards in the market with hardware support for ray tracing.
They deliver a 2 to 3x performance speed up over GPUs without a dedicated ray tracing core.
The laptop business continues to be a standout growth driver as OEMs are ramping a record 100-plus gaming laptop models ahead of the back to school and holiday season.
The combination of our energy-efficient Turing architecture and Max-Q technology enables beautifully crafted thin and light form factors that can deliver the performance of high-end gaming desktop or our next-generation console.
At Computex in May, we unveiled NVIDIA RTX Studio laptops, a new design artist platform that extends our reach to the large, underserved market of creators.
In the age of YouTube, creators and freelancers are rapidly growing population, but they have traditionally not had access to professional-grade workstations through online and retail channels.
RTX Studio laptops are designed to meet their increasing complex workflows such as photorealistic ray tracing, AI image enhancement and ultra high-resolution video.
Powered by our RTX GPUs and optimized software, RTX Studio laptops deliver performance that’s up to 7x faster than that of the MacBook Pro.
A total of 27 RTX Studio models have been announced by major OEMs.
Sequential growth also benefited from the production ramp of the two new models of Nintendo Switch gaming console.
We are expecting our console business to remain strong in Q3 before the seasonal production slowdown in Q4 when console-related revenue is expected to be fairly minimal, similar to last year.
Moving to data center, revenue was $655 million, down 14% year-on-year and up 3% sequentially.
In the vertical industries portion of the business, expanding AI workload drove sequential and year-over-year growth.
In hyperscale portion, we continue to be impacted by relatively weak overall spending at a handful of CSPs.
Sales of NVIDIA GPUs for use in the cloud were solid.
While sales of internal hyperscale use were muted, the engineering focus on AI is growing.
Let me give some color on each of these areas.
We are building a broad base of customers across multiple industries as they adopt NVIDIA’s platforms to harness the power of AI.
Public sectors, higher education and financial services were among the key verticals driving growth this quarter.
In addition, we won Lighthouse account deals in important industries that are on the cusp of being transformed by AI.
For example, in retail, Wal-Mart is using NVIDIA GPUs to run some of its product demand forecasting models, slashing the time to do so in just 4 hours from several weeks on CPUs.
By accelerating its data science workflow, Wal-Mart can improve its algorithms, reduce development cycles and test new features.
Earlier this week, we announced breakthroughs for the fastest training and inference of the state-of-the-art model for natural language process understanding called BERT, or Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers, a breakthrough AI language model that achieves a deeper sense of language, context and meaning.
This can enable mere human comprehension in real-time by chat box, intelligent personal assistants and search engines.
We are working with Microsoft as an early adopter of these advances.
AI computing leadership is a high priority for NVIDIA.
Last month, we set records for training deep learning neural network models on the latest MLPerf benchmarks, particularly in the most demanding areas.
In just 7 months, we have achieved up to 80% speed-ups enabled by new algorithms and software optimizations across the full stack while using the same hardware.
This is a direct result of the productive programming environment and flexibility of CUDA.
Delivering AI at scale isn’t just about silicon.
It’s about optimizing across the entire high-performance computing system.
In fact, the NVIDIA AI platform is getting progressively faster.
Every month, we publish new optimization and performance improvements to CUDA-X AI libraries, supporting every AI framework and development environment.
All in, our ecosystem of developers is now 1.4 million strong.
In setting these MLPerf records, we leveraged our new DGX SuperPOD AI supercomputer, demonstrating that leadership in AI research demands leadership in computing infrastructure.
This system debuted in June at #22 on the TOP500 list of the world’s fastest supercomputers at the annual International Supercomputing Conference.
Used to meet the massive demand for autonomous vehicle development program, it is powered by more than 1,500 NVIDIA V100 Tensor Core GPUs linked with Mellanox interconnects.
We have made DGX SuperPOD available commercially to customers, essentially providing them with the turnkey supercomputer that they can assemble in weeks rather than months.
It is roughly 400x smaller in size than other similarly performing TOP500 systems, which are built from thousands of servers.
Also at the conference, we announced that by next year’s end, we will make available to the ARM ecosystem NVIDIA’s full stack of AI and HPC software, which accelerates more than 600 HPC applications and all AI frameworks.
With this announcement, NVIDIA will accelerate all major CPU architectures, including x86, POWER and ARM.
Lastly, regarding our pending acquisition of Mellanox, we have received regulatory approval in the U.S. and are engaged with regulators in Europe and China.
The approval process is progressing as expected, and we continue to work toward closing the deal by the end of this calendar year.
Moving to pro visualization, revenue reached $291 million, up 4% from our prior year and up 9% sequentially.
Year-on-year and sequential growth was led by record revenue for mobile workstations with strong demand for new thin and light form factors.
We had a great showing at SIGGRAPH, the computer graphics industry’s biggest annual conference held in Los Angeles.
Our researchers won several Best in Show awards.
In just a year since the launch of RTX ray tracing, over 40 design and creative applications with RTX technology had been announced by leading software vendors, including Adobe, Autodesk and Dassault systems and many others.
NVIDIA RTX technology has reinvigorated the computer graphics industry by enabling researchers and developers to take a leap in photorealistic rendering, augmented reality and virtual reality.
Finally, turning to automotive, Q2 revenue was $209 million, up 30% from a year ago and up 26% sequentially.
This reflects growing adoption of next-generation AI cockpit solutions and autonomous vehicle development projects, including one particularly sizable development services transaction that was recognized in the quarter.
In addition, in June, we announced a new partnership with the Volvo Group to develop AI and autonomous trucks utilizing NVIDIA’s end-to-end AI platform for training, simulation and in-vehicle computing.
The strategic partnership will enable Volvo Group to develop a wide range of autonomous driving solutions for freight transport, recycling collection, public transport, construction, mining, forestry and more.
This collaboration is a great validation of our long-held position that every vehicle, not just cars but also trucks, shuttles, business, taxis and many others, will have autonomous capability 1 day.
Autonomous features can bring enormous value to the trucking industry, in particular as the demand of online shopping put ever greater stress on the world’s transport systems.
Expectations for overnight or same-day deliveries create challenges that can only be met by autonomous trucks, which can operate 24 hours a day.
To help address these needs, NVIDIA has created an end-to-end platform for autonomous vehicles from AI computing infrastructure to large-scale simulation to in-car computing.
Multiple customers from OEMs like Mercedes-Benz, Toyota and Volvo to Tier 1s like Bosch, Continental and ZF are already onboard.
We see this as a $30 billion addressable market by 2025.
Moving to the rest of the P&L, Q2 GAAP gross margins was 59.8% and non-GAAP was 60.1%, up sequentially, reflecting higher automotive development services, a favorable mix in gaming and lower component cost.
GAAP operating expenses were $970 million, and non-GAAP operating expenses were $749 million, up 19% and 8% year-on-year, respectively.
We remain on track for high single-digit OpEx growth in fiscal 2020 while continuing to invest in the key platforms driving our long-term growth, namely graphics, AI and self-driving cars.
GAAP EPS was $0.90, down 49% from a year earlier.
Non-GAAP EPS was $1.24, down 36% from a year ago.
With that, let me turn to the outlook for the third quarter of fiscal 2020.
We expect revenue to be $2.9 billion, plus or minus 2%.
GAAP and non-GAAP gross margins are expected to be 62% and 62.5%, respectively, plus or minus 50 basis points.
GAAP and non-GAAP operating expenses are expected to be approximately $980 million and $765 million, respectively.
GAAP and non-GAAP OI&E are both expected to be income of approximately $25 million.
GAAP and non-GAAP tax rates are both expected to be 10%, plus or minus 1%, excluding discrete items.
Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $100 million to $120 million.
Further financial details are included in the CFO commentary and other information available on our IR website.
In closing, let me highlight upcoming events for the financial community.
We will be at the Jefferies conference, hardware and communications infrastructure summit, on August 27 and at the Citi Global Technology Conference on September 25.
With that, we will now open the call for questions.
Operator, would you please poll for the questions?
Question-and-Answer Session Operator [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of C.J.
Muse with Evercore.
C.J.
Muse Good afternoon.
Thank you for taking the questions.
I guess first question on gaming, how should we think about your outlook into the October quarter vis-à-vis kind of normal seasonality?
How are you thinking about Switch within that?
And considering now that you have full Turing lineup as well as content truly coming to the forefront here, how do you think about trends beyond the October quarter?
Thank you.
Jen-Hsun Huang Sure.
Colette, why don’t you take the Switch question?
And then I will take the rest of the RTX questions.
Colette Kress Sure.
From a gaming perspective, the overall Switch or the overall console business definitely is a seasonal business.
We usually expect to see production ramping in Q2 and in Q3, with it coming down likely in Q4.
So you should see Switch to be a portion definitely of our gaming business in Q3.
Jen-Hsun Huang Yes.
C.J., thanks for your question.
RTX as you know is – first of all, RTX is doing great.
I think we have put all the pieces in place to bring ray tracing into the future of games.
The number of games, the blockbuster games that adopted RTX is really snowballing.
We announced several 6 games in the last couple of months.
There is going to be some exciting announcements next week at gamescom.
It’s pretty clear now the future of gaming will include ray tracing.
The number of software developers that create – with creative tools that adopted RTX is really quite spectacular.
We now have 40 – over 40 ISV tools that was announced at SIGGRAPH that have accelerated ray tracing and video editing.
And some of the applications’ amazing AI capabilities for image optimization enhancement support RTX.
And so looking forward, this is what I expect.
I expect that ray tracing is going to drive a reinvigoration of gaming graphics.
I expect that the over 100 laptops that we have RTX designed – RTX GPUs designed into is going to contribute our growth.
Notebook gaming is one of the fastest-growing segments of the gaming platform world.
The number of notebooks that are able to game is only a few percent, so it’s extremely underexposed.
And yet, we know that gamers are – like the rest of us, they like thin and light notebooks, but they like it to be able to run powerful games.
And so this is an area that has grown significantly for us year-over-year, and we’re expecting it to grow through the end of the – through the second half and through next year.
And one of the things that’s really exciting is our RTX Studio line that we introduced recently.
We observed, and through our discussions with the PC industry, that the creatives are really underexposed and underserved by the latest technologies.
And they want notebooks and they want PCs that have powerful graphics.
They use it for 3D content creation and high-definition video editing and image optimization and things like that.
And we introduced a brand-new line of computers that we call RTX Studio.
Now the OEMs were so excited about it.
And at SIGGRAPH, we now have 27 different laptops shipping and more coming.
And so I think RTX is really geared for growth.
We have great games coming.
We got the SUPER line of GPUs.
We have all of our notebooks that were designed into that we are ramping and of course, the new RTX Studio line.
And so I expect this to be a growth market for us.
Christopher James Very helpful.
If I could follow-up on the data center side, perhaps you can speak directly just to the hyperscale side, both internal and cloud, and whether you’re seeing any green shoots, any signs of life there and how you are thinking about what that rate of recovery could look like over time?
Jen-Hsun Huang With the exception of a couple of hyperscalers, C.J., I would – we’re seeing broad-based growth in data centers.
In the area of training, the thing that’s really exciting everybody, and everybody is racing towards, is training these large gigantic natural language understanding models, language models.
The transformer model that was introduced by Google, called BERT, has since been enhanced into XLned and RoBERTa and, gosh, so many different, GP2, and Microsoft’s MASS.
And there are so many different versions of these language models.
And in the AI, NLU, natural language understanding, is one of the most important areas that everybody’s racing to go to.
And so, these models are really, really large.
It’s over 1,000x larger than image models that we’re training just a few years ago, and they’re just gigantic models.
It’s one of the reasons why we built the DGX SuperPOD so that we could train these gigantic models in a reasonable amount of time.
The second area – so that’s training in the hyperscalers.
The second area where we are seeing enormous amounts of activity has to do with trying to put these conversational AI models into services so that they could be interactive and in real time.
Whereas photo tagging and photo enhancement is something that you could put off-line and you could do that while you have excess capacity when it’s off of the most busy time of the day.
You can’t do that with language and conversational AI.
You better to respond to the person in real time.
And so the performance that’s required is significant.
But more importantly, the number of models necessary for conversational AI from speech recognition to language understanding to recommendation systems to text-to-speech to wave synthesis these 5, 6, 7 models have to be processed in real time – in series and in real time so that you can have a reasonable conversation with the AI agent.
And so these type of activities is really driving interest and activity at all of the hyperscalers.
My expectation is that this is going to continue to be a big growth opportunity for us.
But more importantly, in addition to that, we’re seeing that AI is – the wave of AI is going from the cloud to the enterprise to the edge and all the way out to the autonomous systems.
The place where we’re seeing a lot of excitement, and we talked about that in the past and we’re seeing growth there, has to do with the vertical industry enterprises that are starting to adopt AI to create new products, whether it’s a delivery robot or some kind of a Chat Bot or the ability to detect fraud in financial services, these applications in vertical industries are really spreading all over the place.
There’s some over 4,000 AI start-ups around the world.
And the way that we engage them is they use our platform to start developing AI in the cloud.
And as you know, we’re the only AI platform that’s available on-prem and in every single cloud.
And so they can use our AI platforms for – in all the clouds, which is driving our cloud computing, external cloud computing growth.
And then they can also use it on-prem if their usage really grows significantly.
And that’s one of the reasons why our Tesla for OEMs and DGX is growing.
And so we’re seeing broad-based excitement around AI as they use it for their products and new services.
And these 4,000, 4,500 start-ups around the world is really driving consumption of that.
Operator And your next question comes from the line of Vivek Arya with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Vivek Arya Alright thanks for taking my questions.
I actually had 2 as well, one quick one for Colette and one for Jensen.
Colette, good to see the gross margin recovery getting into October is this 62% to 63% range a more sustainable level and perhaps a level you could grow off of as sales get more normalized levels?
And then a bigger question is for Jensen.
Again, on the data center side, Jensen, when I look back between – 2015 to 2018, your data center business essentially grew 10x.
And then the last year has been a tough one with the slowdown in cloud CapEx and so forth.
When do you think your data center starts to grow back on a year-to-year – on a year-on-year basis?
Can that happen sometime – later this year?
And then just longer term, what is the right way to think about this business?
Does it go back to prior levels?
Does it go at a different phase?
This is the one part of the business that I think is toughest for us to model, so any color would be very helpful.
Colette Kress Great, so let me start first with your question, Vivek, regarding gross margins.
Yes, thanks for recognizing that we are moving towards our expectations that, over time, we’ll continue to see our overall volumes improve.
Essentially, our business is normalized.
We’ve reached normalized levels through the last couple of quarters.
And this quarter, just very similar to what we will see going forward, is mix is the largest driver, what drives our overall gross margins and our gross margin improvements.
Jen-Hsun Huang Yes, Vivek, if you look at the last several years, there’s no question our data center business has grown a lot.
And my expectation is that it’s going to grow a lot more, and let me explain to you why.
Aside from a couple – a few of uncontrollable circumstances and the exception of a couple of large customers, the overall trend, the broad-based trend, of our data center business is upward, to the right.
And it is growing very nicely.
There’s a couple of different dynamics that’s causing that on first principles to grow.
And of course, one of them is as AI is well known now to require accelerated computing, our computing architecture is really ideal for it.
AI is not just one network.
It’s thousands of different types of networks, and these networks are getting more and more complex over time, the amount of data you have to process is enormous.
And so like all software programs, you cannot predict exactly how the software is going to get programmed.
And having a programmable architecture like CUDA and yet optimized for AI like Tensor Cores that we’ve created is really the ideal architecture.
We know also that AI is the most powerful technology force of our time.
The ability for machines to learn and write software by itself and write software that no humans can write is pretty extraordinary.
And the applications of AI, as you guys are watching yourself, are just spreading in every single industry.
And so the way we think about AI is in waves, if you will.
The first wave of AI is developing the computer architecture, and that was the first part where – that’s when a lot of people discovered who we are, and we emerged into the world of high-performance computing in AI.
The second wave is applying the AI for cloud service providers or hyperscalers.
They have a large amount of data.
They have a lot of consumer applications.
Many of them are not life-critical and so, therefore, the application of an early technology – early-adoption technology was really viable.
And so you saw hyperscalers adopt AI.
And the thing that’s really exciting for us is beyond recommendations, beyond image enhancement, the area where we believe the most important application for AI is likely conversational AI.
Most people talking and asking questions and talking to their mobile devices and looking for something or asking for directions instead of having a page of – a list of options, it responds with an answer that is very likely a good one.
The next phase of AI is what we call vertical industry enterprise AI.
And this is where companies are using it not just to accelerate the business process internally, but they’re using AI to create new products and services.
They could be new medical instruments to IoT-based medical instruments to monitor your health.
It could be something related to an application that – used for financial services for forecasting or for fraud detection.
It could be some kind of device that delivers pizza to you, delivery bots.
And the combination of IoT and artificial intelligence, for the very first time, you actually have the software capabilities to make use of all of these sensors that you’re putting all over the world.
And that’s the next phase of growth.
And it affects companies from large industrials, transportation companies, retailers, you name it.
Health care companies, you name it.
And so that phase of growth of AI is the phase that we’re about to enter into.
And then the longer term is an industry that we all know to be extremely large, but it takes time because it’s life-critical, and it has to do with transportation.
It’s a $100 trillion industry.
We know it’s going to be automated.
We know that everything that moves in the future will be autonomous or have autonomous capabilities.
And that’s just a matter of time before we realize its full potential.
And so the net of it all is that I believe that AI is the single most powerful technology force of our time, and that’s why we’re all in on it.
And we know that acceleration and accelerated computing is the perfect model for that.
And it started in the cloud, but it’s going to keep moving out into the edge and through data centers and enterprises and hopefully – well, eventually, all the way out into autonomous devices and machines in the real world.
And so this is a big market, and I’m super enthusiastic about it.
Operator And your next question comes from the line of Toshiya Hari with Goldman Sachs.
Toshiya Hari Hi guys.
Thanks very much for taking the questions.
I had two as well, one for Jensen and the other for Colette.
Jensen, you guys called out inference as a significant contributor to growth in data center last quarter.
I think you guys talked about it being a double-digit percentage contributor, curious what you saw from inference in the quarter.
And more importantly, if you can talk about the outlook, both near term and long term, as it relates to inference, that’ll be helpful.
And then secondly, for Colette, just want to double click on the gross margin question.
The sequential improvement that you’re guiding to is a pretty significant number.
So I was just hoping if you can kind of break it down for us in terms of overall volume growth mix dynamics, both between segments and within segments and also to the extent DRAM pricing is impacting that, any color on that will be helpful as well.
Thank you.
Jen-Hsun Huang Yes, Toshiya, I got to tell you, I’m less good at normal pre – near-term productions than I am good at thinking about long-term dynamics.
But let me talk to you about inference.
Our inference business is – remains robust.
It’s double digits.
It’s a large part of our business.
And – but more importantly, the two dynamics that I think are near term and that’s going to drive growth, number one is interactive conversational AI, interactive conversational AI inference.
If you simply ask a chat bot a simple question, where is the closest pizza and you would – pizza shop, and you would like to have a conversation with this bot, it would have to do speech recognition, it has to understand what it is that you asked about, it has to look it up in a recommender based on the locations you’re at, maybe your preferences of styles of pizza and the price ranges that you’re interested and how far you’re willing to go, to go get it.
It has to recommend a pizza shop for you to go to.
It has to then translate that from text-to-speech and then into human – a human understand a voice.
And those models have to happen in just a few – ideally, a few hundred milliseconds.
Currently, it’s not that.
And it makes it really hard for these services to be deployed quite broadly and used for all kinds of different applications.
And so that’s the near-term opportunity, it’s interactive conversational AI inference.
And you could just imagine every single hyperscaler racing to go make this possible because recently, we had some important breakthroughs in machine learning language models.
The BERT model that I mentioned earlier is really, really an important development, and it’s caused a large number of derivatives that has improved upon it and so near-term conversational AI inference.
But, we are also seeing near term the inference at the edge.
There are many types of applications where because of the laws of physics reasons, the speed of light reasons or the economics reasons or data sovereignty reasons, it’s not possible to stream the data to the cloud and have the inference done at the cloud.
You have to do that at the edge.
You need the latency to be low, the amount of data that you’re streaming is continuous.
And so you don’t want to be paying for that line rate the whole time, and maybe the data is of great confidentiality or privacy.
And so we’re seeing a lot of excitement and a lot of development for edge AI.
Smart retail, smart warehouses, smart factories, smart cities, smart airports, you just make a list of those kind of things, basically locations where there is a lot of activity, where safety or cost or large amount of materials is passing through, you could just imagine the applications.
All of those really want to be edge computing systems and edge inference systems.
And so those are near term – two near-term drivers, and I think it’s fair to say that both of them are quite large opportunities.
Colette Kress So to answer your question regarding gross margin in a little bit more detail, probably our largest area that we expect improvement in terms of our mix is our mix return regarding our overall gaming business.
We expect to have a full quarter of our SUPER lineup within the next quarter including our RTX as well as our notebook becoming a bigger mix as well as it grows.
These drivers are one of the largest reasons why we see that growth in our gross margin.
We always think about our component cost, our overall cost of manufacturing, so this is always baked in over time, but we’ll continue to see improvements on that as well.
Operator And your next question comes from the line of Harlan Sur with JPMorgan.
Harlan Sur Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking my question.
Again on your data center business, many of your peers on the compute and storage side are seeing spending recovery by cloud and hyperscalers in the second half of this year after a similar weak first half of the year.
You guys saw some growth in Q2 driven primarily by enterprise.
It seems like you had some broadening out of the customer spending this quarter.
Inferencing continues to see strong momentum.
Would you guys expect that this translates into a double-digit percentage sequential growth in data center in Q3 off of the low base in Q2?
Jen-Hsun Huang Our hyperscale data center with a few customers don’t give us very much – we don’t get very much visibility from a handful of customers in hyperscale.
However, we’re seeing broad-based growth and excitement in data centers.
And the way to think about data center, our data center business consists of hyperscale training, internal training, hyperscale inference, cloud computing – and that’s hyperscale, and that cloud is a public cloud.
And then we have vertical industry enterprise, what sometimes we call enterprise, vertical industry enterprise, it could be transportation companies, retailers, telcos, vertical industry adoption of AI either to accelerate their business or to develop new products and services.
And then the – so when you look at our data center from that perspective and these pieces, although we don’t see as much – we don’t get as much visibility as we like in a couple of the large customers, the rest of the hyperscalers, we’re seeing broad-based growth.
And so we’re experiencing the enthusiasm and the energy that maybe the others are and so we will keep updating you guys as we go.
We will see how it goes.
Operator And your next question comes from the line of Timothy Arcuri with UBS.
Timothy Arcuri Thanks a lot.
I had two.
I guess first for Jensen, Volta’s been around now for about 2 years.
Do you see signs of demand maybe building up ahead of the new set of nanometer products, whenever that comes out?
I guess I’m just wondering whether there’s some element of this is more around product cadence that gets resolved as you do roll out the product.
That’s the first question.
And then I guess, the second question, Colette, is of the $300 million growth into October, it sounds like Switch is pretty flat, but I’m wondering if you can give us maybe some qualitative sense of where the growth is coming from, is it maybe like two-third gaming and one-third data centers, something like that?
Thanks.
Jen-Hsun Huang Well, Volta data center products can churn that fast.
We gamers could churn products quickly because they’re bought and sold one at a time.
But data centers data center infrastructure really has to be planned properly, and the build-out takes time.
And we expect Volta to be successful all the way through next year.
And software still continues to be improved on it.
We’re still improving systems on it.
And in fact, just 1 year in just 1 year, we improved our AI performance on Volta by almost 2x, 80%.
And so, you could just imagine the amount of software that’s built on top of Volta and all the Tensor Cores and all the GPUs connected with NVLink and the large number of nodes that are connected to build supercomputers.
The software of building these systems, large-scale systems, is really, really hard.
And that’s one of the reasons why you hear people talk about chips, but they never show up because building the software is just an enormous undertaking.
The number of software engineers we have in the company is in the thousands, and we have the benefit of having built on top of this architecture for over 1.5 decades.
And so, when we’re able to deploy into data centers as quickly as we do, I think we kind of lose sight of how hard it is to do that in the first place.
The last time a new processor entered into a data center was an x86 Xeon, and you just don’t bring processors in the data centers that frequently or that easily.
And so, I think the way to think about Volta is that it’s surely in its prime, and it’s going to keep continue to do well all the way through next year.
Colette Kress In regard to our guidance on revenue, and we do guide in terms of the total.
You have seen, in this last quarter, we executed a sequential increase really focusing on moving to a normalization of our gaming business.
And we’re now approaching the second half of the year getting ready for the back to school and the holidays.
So, you should expect also our gaming business to continue to grow to reach that full normalization by the end of Q3.
We do expect the rest of our platforms to likely also grow.
We have a couple different models on how that will come out.
But yes, we do expect our data center business to grow, and then we’ll see on the rest of our businesses as well.
Operator Your next question comes from the line of Matt Ramsay with Cowen.
Matt Ramsay Thank you very much.
Good afternoon.
A couple of questions.
I guess the first one is Jensen, if you have any, I guess, high-level qualitative commentary on how the new SUPER upgrades of your Turing platform have been received in the market and how you might think about them progressing through the year.
And then, I guess, the second question is a bigger one.
Intel’s talked quite openly about One API.
The software stack at Xilinx is progressing with Versal ACAP.
I mean you guys get a lot of credit for the decade of work that you’ve done on CUDA.
But I wonder if you might comment on if you’ve seen any movement in the competitive landscape on the software side for the data center space.
Thank you.
Jen-Hsun Huang SUPER is off to a great start.
Goodness, SUPER is off to a super start.
And if you look at if you do channel checks all over, even though we’ve got a lot of products in the channel and we last quarter was a transitional quarter for us actually.
And we didn’t we shipped SUPER later in the quarter.
But because the entire ecosystem and all of our execution engines are so primed, we were able to ship a fair number through the channel.
And so, and yet, if you do spot checks all around the world, they’re sold out almost everywhere.
And the pricing in the spot market is drifting higher than MSRP.
That just tells you something about demand.
And so that’s really exciting.
SUPER is off to a super start for and at this point, it’s a foregone conclusion that we’re going to buy a new graphics card, and it’s going to the last 2, 3, 4 years to not have ray tracing is just crazy.
Ray tracing content just keeps coming out.
And between the performance of SUPER and the fact that it has ray tracing hardware, it’s going to be super well positioned for throughout all of next year.
Your question about APIs and software programmability, APIs is just one of the issues.
The large issue about processors is how do you program it.
The reason why x86s and CPUs are so popular is because they solve the great challenge of software developers: how to program a computer and how to program a computer and how to compile for that computer is a paramount concern to computer science, and it’s an area of tremendous research.
Going from single CPU to multi-core CPUs was a great challenge.
Going from multi-core CPUs to multi-node multi-core CPUs is an enormous challenge.
And yet, when we created CUDA in our GPUs, we went from 1 CPU core or one processor core to a few to now, in the case of large-scale systems, millions of processor cores.
And how do you program such a computer across multi-GPU, multi-node?
It’s a concept that’s not easy to grasp.
And so, I don’t really know how one programming approach or a simple API is going to make 7 different type of weird things work together.
And I can’t make it fit in my head.
But programming isn’t as simple as a PowerPoint slide, I guess.
And I think it’s just time will tell whether one programming approach could fit 7 different types of processors when no time in history has it ever happened.
Operator Your next question comes from the line of Joe Moore with Morgan Stanley.
Joe Moore Great.
thank you.
I wonder if you could talk about the strength in the automotive business.
Looks like the services piece of that is getting to be bigger, what’s the outlook for that part of the business?
And can you give us a sense of the mix between services and components at this point?
Jen-Hsun Huang Sure.
Thanks, Joe.
Our approach to autonomous vehicles comes in basically 2 parts.
The first part is a full stack, which is building the architected processor, the system, the system software and all of the driving applications on top, including the deep neural nets.
The second part of it, we call that a full stack self-driving car computer.
The second part of DRIVE includes an end-to-end AV development system.
For those who would like to use our processors, use our system software but create their own applications, we created a system that allows basically shares with them our computing infrastructure that we built for ourselves that allows them to do end-to-end development from deep learning development to the application of AV to simulating that application to doing regression testing of that application before they deploy it into a car.
And the two systems that we use there is called DGX for training and Constellation for simulation and what is called Replay.
And then the third part of our business model is development agreements, otherwise known as NRE.
These 3 elements, full stack computer, end-to-end development flow and NRE project development product development consists of the overall DRIVE business.
And so, although the cars will take several years to go into production, we’re seeing a lot of interest in working with us to develop self-driving cars using our development systems and entering into development projects.
And so, we’re the number of autonomous vehicle projects is quite large around the world as you can imagine.
And so, my sense is that we’re going to continue to do well here.
The additional part of autonomous vehicles and where the capability has been derived and is going to seal up more near-term opportunities has to do with things like delivery shuttles, self-driving shuttles and maybe cargo movers inside walled warehouses.
Those kinds of autonomous machines require basically the same technology, but it’s sooner and easier to deploy.
And so, we are seeing a lot of excitement around that area.
Operator Your next question comes from the line of Aaron Rakers with Wells Fargo.
Aaron Rakers Yes, thanks for taking the questions and congratulations on the improved performance.
At your Analyst Day back a couple of months ago, you had highlighted the installed base opportunity for RTX.
And I think at that point in time, you talked about 50% being Pascal base, 48% being pre-Pascal.
You also alluded to the fact that you were seeing a positive mix shift higher in terms of the price points of this RTX cycle.
So, I’m curious, where do we stand on the current product cycle?
And what are you seeing currently as we go through this product cycle on the Turing platforms?
Jen-Hsun Huang We launched well, first of all, the answer is that RTX adoption is faster than Pascal’s adoption if you normalize to time 0 of launch.
The reason for that is Pascal launched top to bottom on the same day.
And as you guys know, we weren’t able to do that for Turing.
But if we did that for Turing, the adoption rate is actually faster.
And to me, it’s a rather sensible.
And the reason for that is because Pascal was basically DX12.
And Maxwell was DX12.
And Turing is the world’s first DXR, the first ray tracing GPU, brand-new functionality, brand-new API and a lot more performance.
And so, I think it’s sensible that Turing’s adoption is going to be rapid.
The second element of Turing is something that we’ve never talked about before.
We’re mentioning it more and more because it’s such an exciting book market for us is notebooks.
The install base of Pascal has a very, very little notebook in it.
And the reason for that is because, in the past, we were never able to put a high-performance gaming GPU into a thin and light notebook until we invented Max-Q.
And in combination with our energy efficiency, we were able to we’re now able to put a 2080 into a laptop, and it’s still beautiful.
And so, this is effectively a brand-new growth market for us.
And with so few people and so few gamers in the world that are able to game on a laptop, I think this is going to be a nice growth market for us.
And then the new market that we introduced and launched this last quarter is called RTX Studio.
And this is an underserved segment of the market where consumers, enthusiasts, they could be artists that are working on small firms, they need powerful computers to do their work.
They need powerful computers to do rendering and high-definition video editing.
And yet it’s underserved by workstations because workstations are really sold on a B2B basis into large enterprises.
And so, we aligned all of the OEMs and created a whole new line of notebooks called RTX Studio.
And the enthusiasm has been great.
We’ve launched 27 different laptops, and I’m looking forward to seeing the results of that.
This is tens of millions of people who are creators.
Some of them professionals, some of them hobbyists.
And they use Adobe suites, they use Autodesk in their suites and some of them use SolidWorks and some of them use all kinds of renders, like blender.
And these are 3D artists and video artists, and this digital content creation is the modern way of creativity.
And so, this is an underserved market that we’re excited to go serve with RTX Studio.
Operator And your last question comes from the line of Stacy Rasgon with Bernstein Research.
Stacy Rasgon Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I have two for Colette.
My first question is on data center.
So, I know you say that you have a broad-based growth except for a few hyperscalers.
But you only grew at 3% sequentially, about $20 million.
That doesn’t sound like broad-based growth to me unless like did the hyperscalers get worse or are they just still so much bigger than like the rest of it?
I guess, what’s going on in data center?
How do I wrap my head around like broad-based growth with relatively minimal growth observed?
Colette Kress So, to answer your question here, Stacy, on what we refer to when we’re discussing the broad-based growth is the substantial expansion that we have on the types of customers and the industries that we are now approaching.
As you know, even a year ago, we had a very, very small base in terms of industry-based hyper excuse me, industry-based AI workloads that they were using.
Over this last quarter, we’re continuing to see strong growth as we roll out all different types of AI solutions, both across the U.S. and worldwide, to these overall customers.
Our hyperscalers, again, a couple of them, not necessarily growing, some of them are flat and some of them are growing depending on whether or not that’s for cloud instances or whether or not they’re using it for internal use.
So, we believe that our continued growth with the industries is important for us for the long term to expand the use of AI and we are just really pleased with what we are seeing in that growth this quarter.
Operator I’ll now turn the call back over to Jensen for any closing remarks.
Jen-Hsun Huang Thanks, everyone.
We are happy with our results this quarter and our return to growth across our platforms.
Gaming is doing great.
It’s great to see NVIDIA RTX reinvigorating the industry.
GeForce has several growth drivers.
Ray traced games continue to gain momentum.
A large number of gaming laptops are rolling out, and our new Studio platform is reaching the large underserved community of creators.
Outside a few hyperscalers, we’re seeing broad-based growth in data centers.
AI is the most powerful technology force of our time and a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.
More and more enterprises are using AI to create new products and services while leveraging AI to drive ultra efficiency and speed in their business.
And with hyperscalers racing to harness recent breakthroughs in conversational AI, we see growing engagements in training as well as interactive conversational inference.
RTX, CUDA accelerated computing, AI, autonomous vehicles, the work we’re doing is important, impactful and incredibly fun.
We’re just grateful there is so much of it.
We look forward to updating you on our progress next quarter.
Operator This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE:WFC) Q3 2019 Earnings Conference Call October 15, 2019 11:00 AM ET EPS of $1.07 misses by $-0.10 Revenue of $22.01B (0.31% Y/Y) beats by $816.33M  Company Participants John Campbell - Director, IR Allen Parker - Interim CEO and President John Shrewsberry - CFO Conference Call Participants Erika Najarian - Bank of America Merrill Lynch Scott Siefers - Sandler O'Neill John McDonald - Autonomous Research Ken Usdin - Jefferies John Pancari - Evercore ISI Matt O'Connor - Deutsche Bank David Long - Raymond James Vivek Juneja - JPMorgan Eric Compton - Morningstar Saul Martinez - UBS Betsy Graseck - Morgan Stanley Operator Good morning.
My name is Regina, and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to John Campbell, Director of Investor Relations.
Sir, you may begin the conference.
John Campbell Thank you, Regina.
Good morning, everyone.
Thank you for joining our call today where our Interim CEO and President, Allen Parker; and our CFO, John Shrewsberry will discuss third quarter results and answer your questions.
This call is being recorded.
Before we get started, I would like to remind you that our third quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our Web site at wellsfargo.com.
I'd also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Factors that may cause the actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.
Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can also be found in our SEC filings, in the earnings release, and in the quarterly supplement available on our Web site.
I will now turn the call over to Allen Parker.
Allen Parker Thank you, John.
Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us for today's discussion of our third quarter results.
Our earnings included a number of significant items that John Shrewsberry will discuss, but I'll note at the outset that our underlying business fundamentals were strong.
That strength was demonstrated by, among other things, increases in loan and deposit balances both from the second quarter and from a year ago, our highest branch customer experience scores in over three years, and continued growth in primary consumer checking customers.
As you all know, Charlie Scharf will join Wells Fargo next week as our new CEO and President.
I've had the opportunity to spend a great deal of time with Charlie, and I'm convinced that he has the right combination of experience, business savvy, and leadership ability to position Wells Fargo for an even more successful future.
I look forward to working with Charlie on a seamless transition as he assumes his responsibilities as CEO, and I return to my role as the company's General Counsel.
It's been an honor for me to serve as our Interim CEO and President over the last six months.
I am proud that during my time in this role, the company continued to move forward, and we made progress on our top priorities, which include focusing on our customers and team members, meeting the expectations of our regulators, and continuing our company's important transformation.
Let me provide just a few examples of our most recent progress.
In the area of leadership, we made important hires during the third quarter in Technology, Merchant Services, and Wealth Management.
In addition, within Consumer Banking, we named leaders to new roles that will help us better serve our customers.
David Kowach, who was most recently the head of Wells Fargo Advisors, assumed a new role as the Head of Community Banking, reporting to Mary Mack.
We created this role because we believe that having a single dedicated leader supporting our team members and customers in our branches will significantly further our ongoing transformation.
We also formed within Consumer Banking, a new Enterprise Customer Excellence Group that will, over time bring together functions from across the company and give us broader insight into the customer experience.
This new group is under the leadership of Andy Rowe, who led Consumer Segments and Consumer Strategy for the last two years.
And in the area of innovation and technology, we made several important announcements during the third quarter.
Wells Fargo's ongoing commitment to exploring and investing in emerging technologies through the Wells Fargo Startup Accelerator program was demonstrated by our adding two new companies, one focused on augmented reality and the other focused on climate change risk.
The total number of companies in that portfolio is now 25.
We also announced plans to pilot, next year, Wells Fargo Digital Cash, which is designed to enable us to complete internal booked transfers of cross-border payments running on our first distributed ledger technology platform.
This new technology should drive operational efficiencies by providing longer operating windows and real-time processing.
Finally, we announced a data exchange agreement with Plaid, a leading data platform.
With this agreement, our customers will have greater control over the bank account information they share with Plaid-supported apps, including the ability to turn on or off data sharing through Wells Fargo's Control Tower.
I want to conclude my comments this morning by thanking the members of our operating committee, our other senior leaders, and all our team members for their efforts, dedication, and perseverance during the last six months.
In particular, I want to thank Doug Edwards for his strong and thoughtful leadership as our Interim General Counsel during this period of transition.
We continue to have a lot of work ahead of us, but the unwavering focus of our team members on serving our customers are also working tirelessly to transform Wells Fargo has enabled us to make substantial progress toward our goals over the last six months.
Looking forward, I am confident that the extraordinary strings of the Wells Fargo franchise, when combined with our new leadership and our collective commitment to work hard to achieve further improvements will result in a company that is well-positioned to benefit our shareholders and all our other stakeholders.
John will now discuss our financial results in more detail.
John Shrewsberry Thank you, Allen, and good morning everyone.
We had a number of significant items in the third quarter that impacted our results, which we highlight in slide two.
We had $1.9 billion of operating losses, predominantly reflecting litigation accruals for a variety of matters, including a $1.6 billion discrete litigation accrual for previously disclosed retail sales practices matters that was not tax deductible and reduced EPS by $0.35 per share.
We had a $1.1 billion gain from the sale of our Institutional Retirement and Trust business, which contributed $0.20 per share to EPS.
We had gains of $302 million from the sales of $510 million of Pick-a-Pay PCI, and other PCI residential mortgage loans.
We had $244 million in mortgage servicing rights valuation adjustments driven predominantly by higher prepayment rate estimates on our MSRs.
These valuation adjustments resulted in our mortgage banking revenue declining from the second quarter despite an increase in mortgage originations and higher production margins.
We had a $105 million impairment of capitalized software reflecting reevaluation of software under development.
We also had a modest $50 million reserve build compared with the $150 million reserve release last quarter.
Finally, we partially redeemed our Series K Preferred Stock, which reduced diluted EPS by $0.05 per share as a result of elimination of purchase accounting discount recorded on these shares at the time of the Wachovia acquisition.
This partial redemption will reduce the amount of our quarterly preferred stock dividends by approximately $23 million, starting in the fourth quarter.
While our financial results in the third quarter were impacted by these items, as Allen summarized and we highlight on slide three, we continue to have positive business momentum with strong customer activity.
We’ve reviewed some of our year-over-year results on page four.
Compared with the third quarter of 2018, revenue was stable with an increase of $1 billion in non-interest income driven by the sale of our Institutional Retirement and Trust business, largely offset by a $947 million decline in net interest income.
Our expenses increased $1.4 billion from a year ago, driven by $1.3 billion of higher operating losses reflecting higher litigation accruals.
Our net charge-off rate remains near historic lows at 27 basis points.
We had a $50 million reserve build in the third quarter compared with the $100 million reserve release a year ago.
We maintained strong capital levels even as we reduced common shares outstanding by 9% and increased our quarterly common stock dividend by 19% from a year ago.
I will be highlighting most of the balance sheet drivers on page five throughout the call, so we will turn to page six.
Our effective income tax rate increased to 22.1% in the third quarter, reflecting a net discrete income tax expense of $443 million, predominantly related to the non-tax-deductible treatment of the $1.6 billion discrete litigation accrual.
We currently expect the effective income tax rate for the fourth quarter to be approximately 17.5%, excluding the impact of any unanticipated discrete items.
Turning to page seven, average loans were up $10.3 billion from a year ago and increased $2.3 billion from the second quarter.
This was the first time we had both year-over-year and linked quarter growth in average loans in nearly three years.
Period-end loans increased $12.6 billion from a year ago with growth in C&I, first mortgage, credit card, and auto loans partially offset by declines in commercial real estate, junior lien mortgage, and other revolving credit and installment loans.
We grew loans even as we sold or moved to held-for-sale a total $7.4 billion of consumer loans over the past year.
I will highlight the drivers of the linked quarter growth in loans starting on page nine.
Commercial loans were stable linked quarter as growth in C&I loans and leased financing was largely offset by declines in commercial real estate loans.
C&I loans were up $2 billion with broad based growth in corporate and investment banking and the purchases of CLOs in loan form in the credit investment portfolio.
These increases were partially offset by declines in commercial banking and lower government and institutional banking and middle market lending and in commercial capital driven by seasonally lower commercial distribution finance dealer floor plan loans.
Commercial real estate loans declined $2.2 billion from the second quarter with declines in both commercial real estate mortgage and commercial real estate construction loans reflecting increased market liquidity, higher refinancing activity, and continued credit discipline.
Leased financing increased $276 million from the second quarter, driven by growth in large ticket direct finance leases in equipment finance.
As we show on page 10, consumer loans increased $5 billion from the second quarter.
The first mortgage loan portfolio increased $4.2 billion from the prior quarter driven by $19.3 billion of originations held for investment and the purchase of $1 billion of loans as a result of our exercising service cleanup calls to terminate over 20 pre-2008 securitizations.
This growth was partially offset by pay downs as well as sales of $510 million of PCI mortgage loans.
Junior lien mortgage loans were down $1.2 billion from the second quarter as pay downs continue outpaces new originations.
Credit card loans increased $809 million primarily due to seasonality.
Our auto portfolio continued to grow with balances up $1.1 billion from the second quarter.
Originations increased 9% to $6.9 billion.
We have been successfully regaining market share while maintaining our credit discipline.
Our market share growth reflects the benefit of the transformational changes we have made in the business including process improvements that have resulted in faster credit decision response times.
Turning to deposits on page 11, average deposits increased 2% from both a year ago and the second quarter.
Average deposits increased $22.4 billion from the second quarter with growth in wholesale banking as well as retail banking deposits which continue to benefit from promotional rates and offers.
Our average deposit cost of 71 basis points increased 1 basis point from the second quarter, the lowest linked quarter increase since the fourth quarter of 2016.
The increase from the second quarter was driven by continued retail deposit campaign pricing for new deposits so that we begun lower promotional rates in terms in response to market conditions.
The increase was also impacted by unfavorable deposit mix shifts.
On page 12, we provide details on period-end deposits which grew 3% from a year ago and 2% from the second quarter.
Wholesale banking deposits were up $6.6 billion from the second quarter driven by seasonal growth in middle market and business banking as well as growth in our commercial real estate business.
Consumer and small business banking deposits increased $11.9 billion from the second quarter driven by higher retail banking deposits including growth in high yield savings and CDs.
Wealth and investment management deposits grew as clients reallocation of cash in the higher yielding liquid alternatives slowed during the quarter.
Mortgage escrow deposits grew $4.1 billion from the second quarter reflecting higher mortgage payoffs.
These increases were partially offset by a $2.5 billion reduction in corporate Treasury deposits, the second consecutive quarter of declines.
Net interest income declined $470 million from the second quarter primarily due to balance sheet re-pricing driven by the impact of the lower interest rate environment as well as $133 million of higher MBS premium amortization costs due to higher pre-payments.
We currently expect MBS premium amortization to continue to increase in the fourth quarter but at a slower pace.
We also had lower variable income and smaller positive impact from hedge ineffectiveness accounting results.
These declines in net interest income were partially offset by favorable balance sheet growth and mix and the benefit of one additional day of the quarter.
As you can see on the chart on this page, rates have been volatile and the yield curve has flattened significantly over the past year.
Net interest income was down 8% in the third quarter and down 4% in the first nine months of 2019, compared with the same periods a year ago.
As we stated last month, we currently expect net interest income to decline approximately 6% for the full-year compared with 2018.
As always, net interest income will be influenced by a number of factors including loan growth, pricing spreads, the level of rates and the slope of the yield curve.
Turning to page 14, non-interest income increased $896 million for the second quarter driven by the gain from the sale of our institutional retirement and trust business.
Let me highlight a few of the other linked quarter trends.
Trust and investment fees were down $9 million, growth and retail brokerage advisory fees, asset base fees in our asset management business and investment banking fees was offset by the decline in trust and investment fees as a result of the sale of our IRT business.
While we no longer recognize trust and investment fees from this business, we will continue to administer client assets for up to 24 months, and the buyer will pay us a fee for certain costs we incurred during this transition period.
This fee was $94 million in the third quarter and was recognized in other non-interest income.
Mortgage banking revenue declined $292 million from the second quarter driven by a $419 million decline in servicing income primarily due to the valuation adjustments on our MSRs reflecting higher prepayment rate estimates.
Partially offsetting this decline was $127 million increase in net gains on mortgage loan originations and sales activities.
Mortgage originations increased $5 billion from the second quarter due to higher refi volumes from lower interest rates with refis increasing to 40% of originations in the third quarter.
We ended the quarter with a $44 billion unclosed pipeline consistent with the second quarter and we currently expect fourth quarter originations to remain at a similar level to the third quarter.
Residential held for sale mortgage loan originations totaled $38 billion in the third quarter and the production margin on these originations increased to 121 basis points with higher margins in both retail and correspondent channels, driven by capacity constraints.
We had $956 million of net gains from equity securities in the third quarter primarily due to realized and unrealized gains from our affiliated venture capital and private equity partnerships.
These gains were partially offset by lower deferred comp plan investment results which are largely P&L neutral.
Turning to expenses on page 15, expenses increased from both the second quarter and a year ago, largely due to higher operating losses, primarily reflecting litigation accruals.
To explain the drivers we will start on page 16.
Expenses increased $1.8 billion from the second quarter driven by a $1.7 billion increase in operating losses.
The increase in compensation and benefits reflected higher salaries expense primarily driven by one additional day in the quarter, a change in staffing mix and higher severance expense partially offset by lower deferred comp expense.
Infrastructure expense increased due to higher equipment expense reflecting the $105 million impairment of capitalized software, predominantly in our wealth and investment management business as well as higher occupancy expense.
These increases were partially offset by lower advertising and promotion, FDIC expense, as well as lower T&E expense.
As we show on page 17, expenses increased $1.4 billion from a year ago, driven by $1.3 billion of higher operating losses.
As we've previously discussed, investments and risk management including regulatory compliance and operational risk as well as data and technology have exceeded expectations and have offset the expense efficiency we've achieved in other areas.
We currently expect our 2019 expenses to be approximately $53 billion, which is at the top end of our $52 to $53 billion target range.
This excludes annual operating losses in excess of $600 million and also excludes deferred comp expense, which is largely P&L neutral and total $476 million through the first nine months of the year.
Turning to our Business segments starting on page 19, community banking earnings declined $2.1 billion from the second quarter, primarily driven by higher operating losses reflecting higher litigation accruals.
On page 20, we provide our community banking metrics.
We have 30.2 million digital active customers in the third quarter up 4% from a year ago, including 7% growth in mobile active customers.
Primary consumer checking customers grew for the eighth consecutive quarter on a year-over-year basis.
Branch customer experience survey scores have increased for five consecutive quarters and reached their highest levels in more than three years in September.
The continued improvement in these scores reflects the transformative change we've been making to provide a better customer experience.
We've enhanced training and coaching for our team members in our branches including an increased focus on educating our customers about our industry leading digital capabilities.
On slide 21, teller and ATM transactions declined 6% from a year ago reflecting continued customer migration to digital channels.
We've consolidated 130 branches in the first nine months of this year, including 52 branches in the third quarter.
We continue to have strong card usage with credit card purchase volume up 5% from a year ago and debit card purchase volume up 6% from a year ago.
This was the eighth consecutive quarter of achieving at least 5% year-over-year growth in both debit and credit card purchase volume.
Turning to page 22, wholesale banking earnings declined $145 million from the second quarter, driven by lower net interest income reflecting the impact of the lower interest rate environment.
We've expanded the key metrics that we provide for this business and as you can see we grew unfunded lending commitments on both a year-over-year in linked quarter basis.
We're a large processor of commercial payments as evidenced by our ACH payment and commercial card spend and we grew our year-to-date market share and investment banking driven by higher market share in loans indications.
We're also a market leader in high-grade issuances.
We had record volume in the third quarter commensurate with the industry with September being particularly strong and the fourth highest month on record for the industry fueled by the rally and treasuries.
In general, our commercial customers continue to see moderate demand and no widespread issues related to trade uncertainty and interest rate changes.
We'll continue to monitor business performance closely, but today, while our customers are cautious, the most common concern they identify their ability to hire enough qualified workers.
Wealth and investment management earnings increased $678 million from the second quarter, driven by the gain on the sale of our institutional retirement and trust business.
Turning to page 24, we continue to have strong credit results with our net charge-off rate declining to 27 basis points in the third quarter.
All of our commercial and consumer real estate portfolios were in a net recovery position in the third quarter.
Credit card net charge-offs have been relatively stable as we've been thoughtful in our efforts to generate new account growth, including the launch of our Propel American Express Card last year, and while auto and net charge-offs increased from the second quarter due to seasonality, they were down from a year ago even as we've grown originations by 45%.
We're generating growth in originations, while maintaining our strong credit discipline with consistent loan de-value, payment to income, and FICO scores.
Non-accrual loans declined $377 million from the second quarter with lower non-accruals in both the commercial and consumer portfolios.
Non-accrual loans were 58 basis points of total loans, their lowest level in over 10 years.
We closely monitor our commercial portfolio for signs of weakness and credit quality indicators remains strong.
Our internal credit grades are at their strongest levels in two years and since third quarter of 2017 our criticized loan balances have declined 20% with broad-based improvement across all commercial asset classes.
We currently estimate that the impact of the adoption of CECL at the beginning of next year will be a reduction in our allowance of approximately $1.4 billion.
Just over half of the reduction reflects the expected decrease for commercial loans given their short contractual maturities exceeding the expected incremental allowance for consumer loans that have longer or indeterminate maturities.
As a reminder, we have a smaller credit card portfolio than our large bank peers which reduces the impact CECL adoption will have on our consumer loans.
The remainder of the expected reduction in our allowance predominantly related to the increase in collateral value of residential mortgage loans, which were written down significantly below current recovery value during the last credit cycle.
The ultimate affect of CECL will depend on the size and composition of our loan portfolio, the portfolio's credit quality and economic conditions at the time of adoption, as well as any refinements to our model's methodology and other key assumptions.
Also, as the industry experiences credit cycles, we anticipate more volatility under a lifetime reserving approach versus the incurred loss approach.
Turning to capital, on page 25, CET1 ratio, fully phased-in, decreased to 11.6% driven by returning $9 billion to shareholders through common stock dividends and net share repurchases in the third quarter.
This was up 50% from the $6 billion we returned last quarter.
As a reminder, similar to last year, our plan subject to market conditions and management discretion is to use approximately 65% of the gross repurchase capacity under our most recent capital plan in the second-half of 2019.
In summary, while we had a number of significant items that impacted our third quarter financial results, we had strong underlying business fundamentals, including growth in loans and deposits, increased customer activity, strong credit performance, and higher capital returns.
I'm optimistic that our continued efforts to transform Wells Fargo and the fundamental strengths of our franchise will continue to position us well for success.
And Allen and I will now take your questions.
Question-and-Answer Session Operator [Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
Allen Parker Good morning.
Erika Najarian Hi, good morning.
Morning, as we think about what the forward curve is telling us, and obviously it's been quite a volatile outlook for the forward curve, and some of the momentum that you talked about on the growth side in lending.
As we think about the 6% NII decline in 2019, given sort of the forward curve plus that momentum, how should we think about NII decline expectations for 2020?
John Shrewsberry Yes, well, it's complicated, because there's a lot of things going into it include where rates go versus what the market is suggesting, what happens with loan pricing, deposit pricing, and a variety of things, but if we, in the various scenarios that we run thinking about, let's say, the 9/30 implied forward curve, which suggests Fed funds in the 170 area, 12/31 of this year the 10-year just under 170, and then a year forward, Fed funds in the 120 area and Fed funds still in the 170 -- pardon me, 10-year still in the 170 area.
That with a range of assumptions about loans and deposits probably gets us to down low-to-mid single digits in net interest income.
Maybe not as much of a decline from '18 to '19, but versus a number of scenarios, but it seems to be that would seem to capture it.
Erika Najarian Got it.
And my second question, obviously you can't speak for the new CEO.
The questions that we're getting from your investor base is that they're trying to gauge how much further investment there needs to be sort of going forward.
And you mentioned yourself, John, that the investments in risk compliance and data had exceeded your expectations.
And again, you can't speak for Charlie, but as you think about how those investments played out relative to investments in, let's say, innovation, and as you think about where you are versus peers, is there a significant catch-up gap because you've spent a lot of those dollars on risk compliance and data, how should we think about investment spend from here?
Allen Parker Yes, so I think when Charlie arrives, we'll conduct a complete strategic review of where all the businesses stand and where we -- what our opportunities are, et cetera, including a review of how we've been investing on the risk compliance side, et cetera, and then formulate a view going forward.
One thing that probably doesn't get enough focus is that a lot of the money and time that we've spent on the risk and control side of things really does enable further innovation.
So, the money we spend in technology and data, for example, has huge customer impact down the road.
So, there's not an either or necessarily, there's a lot of mutual benefit from running a more controlled environment.
But that will be work that we all do together with Charlie after he arrives and then present conclusions at the right time.
Erika Najarian Got it, thank you.
Operator Your next question will come from the line of Scott Siefers with Sandler O'Neill.
Scott Siefers Good morning, guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
Allen Parker Hi, Scott.
Scott Siefers John, sort of a follow-up question on costs, I guess if I look at the reiterated 2019 expense guide, it implies a pretty meaningful downdraft in costs in the 4Q, maybe if you could just take a moment to go through sort of the puts and takes and how you bring costs down in the coming quarter?
And then just along the lines of costs into 2020, I know you had previously suggested that costs could be flat in 2020, is that still something you're thinking or now with Charlie coming on board, do we sort of just sort of wait till he comes on and take a look at things, and then give him complete discretion on what the cost outlook looks like?
John Shrewsberry Yes, so on the second half, I think you answered that, which is we should wait and allow him to have an input onto the composition of how we're spending money in the future.
For Q4 though, as you pointed out, it does imply a step down.
And I think the biggest sources of that are other professional fees and some labor-related expense.
But it does require that, that’s how the math works, and that's how we're forecasted right now.
Scott Siefers Okay, perfect, thank you.
And then just separately on mortgage, I think you had said that the originations should stay around this quarter's level into the fourth quarter.
Hopefully, I heard that correctly.
Maybe if you could just sort of comment on where you see gain on sale margins trending with a nice uptick this quarter?
And overall, given the moving parts that you see, should we expect mortgage revenues to be at or above what we saw this quarter, particularly if we don't get the same sort of MSR noise?
Allen Parker Yes, so on the origination side, it's hard to say what the full quarter gain on sale is, but we do think it'll be in the neighborhood of where it's been recently, it was just, call it, 120 basis points, which was a big tick up and welcome.
On the servicing side, well I wouldn't expect there to be any revaluation in the fourth quarter.
We think we’ve got that in the third quarter.
We -- recall that we are in a flatter curve environment, and so the carry for holding treasuries is a hedge to the MSR.
Sometimes, it works for us in a steeper curve environment, and sometimes it's either neutral or works against us when the curve gets flatter.
So we shouldn't earn as much on the hedge but we probably wouldn't have the type of valuation items we saw in Q3.
Scott Siefers Okay, all right, terrific.
Thank you very much for the color.
Allen Parker Yes.
Operator Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Autonomous Research.
Allen Parker Hi, John.
John McDonald Hi, good morning.
Hey, John, wanted to ask about deposits -- deposit pricing.
With the deposit cost increases slowing, might we have seen kind of the end of the deposit cost rise for you guys this quarter assuming rates stay flat to down from here, kind of just trying to think if this could be the max paying quarter for NIM where you had the deposit costs up and loan yields down, and maybe some just puts and takes for the fourth quarter on NIM versus this quarter?
John Shrewsberry Yes, so my expectation is that deposit costs will be cheaper in the fourth quarter reflecting what you described in terms of kind of the burning out of the higher cost deposits that got layered in before the Fed began to ease.
Having said that, that is still -- there was less room to go down on the deposit side, and so if rates continue to move down on the asset side it still works against us even if deposit costs aren't rising.
So we have to be as vigilant as we can to keep deposits costs as low as it makes sense for the businesses and customers that we serve.
But even if they're not rising there's still leverage working against us in a declining rate environment.
John McDonald And in terms of good guys, bad guys, and fourth quarter versus third, what's worse and what's maybe better than what you experienced this quarter on just a NIM percentage?
John Shrewsberry Well, I think we're imagining having a little bit higher level of MBS premium amortization.
So, that will be working for us in the fourth quarter.
It depends, I'd say in terms of wholesale pricing, wholesale banking, deposit pricing.
Working with the higher beta customers to make sure that we reduce those as quickly as possible, there is probably more room to run on that with a little bit of divestiture time that could be a benefit.
The burnout of more promotional activity on the consumer side is probably a net benefit, and those are some of the bigger items.
John McDonald Okay, and guys, one more follow-up on the expenses.
John Shrewsberry Sure.
John McDonald Is it accurate for us to think that there are some elements of your inflation and expenses that are temporary, and helping you get to the best-in-class and satisfy your regulators, and then other parts that are permanent, like helping you stay best-in-class and keep satisfying regulators and some of them what you're building might get more efficient over time, and obviously a lot of it will stay?
John Shrewsberry Yes, I think it's a good point, there's a real opportunity for, for taking best-in-class and then making it much more efficient.
I think we should -- maybe it was last quarter, one of the things that we mentioned is that we're building a control environment for the company as it exists today, and there is just through process consolidation and process reengineering, there's an opportunity for the company to be a whole lot more simplified as we roll forward, and both the cost of delivery and the cost of overseeing that from a risk and control perspective would be expected to be more efficient.
Some of that is converting multiple manual processes to just a fewer processes, and some of it is from converting manual process to automated process, but all of that is upside from where we -- from the day that we determine that we think we've achieved the best-in-class requirement from an operational risk and compliance perspective.
John McDonald Okay, thanks.
Operator Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Ken Usdin Hey, thanks.
Hey, John, one follow-up on the NII side, so you keeping their minus 6 NII I got for the year kind of gets you 11 fours for the year, and down even five next year kind of holds you at that 11 four-ish, and so I know there're so many potential permutations of what happens with the rate environment, but maybe you can just help us talk through how much you expect the balance sheet to grow then, or how -- versus how close you're starting to get towards the asset cap, and what constraints if anything, might you have as this gets further out?
Thanks.
John Shrewsberry I mean within the relevant range of expectations of loan and deposit growth, I wouldn't think of the asset cap as being as really coming into play in our forecast horizon, in part, because there are plenty of levers that we can pull that don't have real customer impact in terms of consumers and our business customers, and we've talked about some of those before in terms of some of the institutional deposits that we take or other wholesale funding that we use, and then, there are some assets that don't work that hard for us from a balance sheet perspective.
So, I guess the low single-digit growth rates for loans and deposits is probably a reasonable proxy for a reasonable placeholder for thinking about how 2020 unfolds, could be a range of different outcomes, but that would be consistent with what I mentioned earlier in terms of how you might forecast the different rate paths and getting to a low to mid single-digits down percentage in net interest income for 2020 versus 2019.
Ken Usdin Understood, thanks, and a follow-up on the fee side, we got the IRT coming out, did you spoke about it, was in the deck, and then you've got Estill [ph], can you just help us understand how you are thinking about how that just nets out as we get past this year as well in terms of revenue and expense trajectory?
Thanks, John.
John Shrewsberry Yes, well, so with IRT, I think we actually have a -- this page in the back of the supplement that shows you exactly what to expect there, and not to oversimplify it, but it's on the order of $100 million a quarter I think from both revenue and expense, at least as we process it.
Estill coming out starting in the fourth quarter, it was probably a little bit bigger in terms of dollars of revenue per quarter, and you'll see it mostly in the commercial mortgage brokerage line item in the P&L, it shows up in a couple of others areas too and have investment banking fees, but similarly the expenses approximate the revenue in our own experience.
So when we finished Q4 and we talked about our 2019 expenses, and we will provide a reconciliation for people to be able to show where we ended up and we'll be sure that to call out both of those things.
Actually, it won't really impact -- IRT won't impact it because the expenses are still in our run rate, and we're recovering them, Estill will be a minor adjustment, because there won't be expenses for Q4.
Ken Usdin Understood, thank you, John.
Operator Your next question comes from the line of John Pancari with Evercore.
Allen Parker Hi, John.
John Pancari Good morning.
Staying on the loan growth topic, you saw some pretty good declines in the commercial real estate portfolios this quarter again and just want to get your updated thoughts there, that's the one area that you're expect to see some runoff still or another words lack of growth, I guess?
Thanks.
Allen Parker So we had a couple quarters with small growth and then we shrunk again a little bit this quarter.
As I understand it, I think our commitments for construction financing are actually up in the third quarter, which will come through as funded loans.
That really is one market where there's late cycle behavior.
There's lots of non-bank competitors, there are more non-bank competitors than bank competitors.
And so we really have to pick our spots in order to maintain our risk reward, credit and pricing and loan terms quality, and it's also one of those areas where, frankly, your weakest loans end up getting refinanced away from you, which is also late cycle behavior by the way, so we're still very comfortable with what we have on the books, but I wouldn't look for it to grow meaningfully until the cycle turns and until our best customers have really interesting opportunities to put their own capital to work and we help them do it.
So I could be wrong, but it feels to me like it's going to be treading water while our best customers either refinance deals that were already in or prudently take advantage of what the market offers them.
But I don't see it as an area for outsized growth.
John Pancari Okay, that's helpful.
And then separately on the fee side, the equity investment gains saw a pretty good jump in the quarter, if you could just give us a little bit of color on what drove that and if you can give us a little thoughts in your outlook there?
Thanks.
Allen Parker Sure.
There's a couple things that drive that, one is it's a great time to be realizing from both private equity and venture portfolios.
And so, our teams have been selling into that and that's where we've been at the high point in the cycle for a while now.
So with respect to the second part of your question, I expect that to reflect what kind of private market we're in and if it still is a strong and financing is accommodating it as it is today then I expect that that they'll continue to harvest and things will be good.
It's a little bit harder of an environment for them to be putting capital to work because asset prices are so high.
The other thing that contributes to is we had a change in accounting a year or so ago which is causing us to recognize unrealized gains where they said there's a subsequent capital raise in a private deal that causes us to have to mark up our position, and it's always been true if one of those companies goes public, but our affiliate still ends up owning shares for a period of time that we write up, we recognize the gain even though we haven't liquidated our position.
So that's contributing, that will contribute to some more volatility here because that can only be one way even though it's been a benefit for the last year.
John Pancari Okay, got it.
Thank you.
Operator Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Allen Parker Hi Matt.
Matt O'Connor Good morning.
So it seems like the NIM percent could bottom somewhere in the 250s, and I'm just trying to get a sense of is that like a reasonable NIM when I think about your mix, right, everyone's trying to compare you to both your bigger peers and your smaller and you don't have as much credit card as some, does that hurts you, also not as much trading book as some that should help you.
And then, you know, just to throw a couple of things like there's still some assets where it seems like you're over earning, like in the securities book, but there's also some deposits that you're overpaying.
So what are your thoughts around, kind of, again based on some of the things that you set for 2020 in NII and thinking about just keeping rates for the four curve is like that NIM in the 250s like is that a normal NIM for you in this backdrop, or there's still some?
John Shrewsberry So we're not currently forecasting over our horizon to quite hit that level.
I mean it's not that far off either of where we are today or what's likely to unfold.
I agree that but while we do have some special things on the asset or the liability side.
The sale of Pick-a-Pay loans they were contributing to interest income and to them is probably something that isn't going to be replicated.
So I think once that fully runs through the comparison periods, I mean it's affecting them already.
That's out, and I don't think there is that much more on the loan side.
It's high yielding that's rolling off.
On the liability side, we did mention that there are some promotional deposits and other things that are burning down because they were in place as we were on the way up in rates, and so that will be a benefit, but I don't think we get quite to 250 in our forecast horizon.
A lot of things go into that, of course, and we don't manage to them.
We're much more thinking about dollars of net interest income, but if that's helpful.
Matt O'Connor Okay, and I was kind of thinking 250 is broadly speaking, but that is helpful.
And then just specifically like as we think about, you know, exiting fourth quarter at net interest income, you're obviously going to be caring or absorbing higher than normal bond premium amortization.
So we don't want to run right all that.
What is the level of the bond premium amortizationthis quarter?
You said they increased at 131, but what's the run rate?
John Shrewsberry Yes, for MBS it's just under $400 million for the quarter and it was just under $250 million for the second quarter, and we think it'll be up a little bit in the fourth quarter.
So it's been about $775 million year-to-date through the third quarter.
Matt O'Connor Okay.
And then just last question all this, as we think about exiting this year, just assuming rates stay where they are now, does that go to zero or there's still going to be just some ongoing amount in the fourth quarter?
John Shrewsberry I assume there'll still be some ongoing amount, if we stay in this context for 10 year and mortgage rates with the velocity of prepayments.
You heard me mentioned that we're at about 40% refis right now in our own production, and our pipeline is this big coming out of the third quarter as it was going in.
And so, that may take months or even quarters for the -- in the moneyness of the outstanding stock of mortgages, you know, agency mortgages to work their way through the system, but there is a whole lot more people who are in the money for refi today than a few quarters ago.
So I don't think that's going to abate quickly.
Matt O'Connor Okay.
And I could just be greedy here and squeeze in one other thing.
You've talked about the increased spending in regulation compliance controls related areas versus two or three years ago.
Is there a dollar amount that you can provide on that increase or I think at one point you did talk about the headcount increase, maybe you could update that and we can make some estimates if you can't give us a dollar amount?
Thank you.
John Shrewsberry Yes, I don't have a crisp answer for you only because it appears everywhere.
It appears in the front line and appears in the second line, it appears in technology, it appears in a variety of areas.
I think we'll try and put a comparison together for folks to get a picture of not only what we think about it, how we think about it historically, but how we think about it going forward back to John McDonald's question of what do we look like at the high watermark versus what efficient looks like over time.
I think matching detail that people should be able to understand as that story unfolds, and I think as we finish this work that we do with Charlie and we talk about what the next steps are expense-wise, that's a reasonable expectation from our team.
Matt O'Connor Okay, thank you.
John Shrewsberry Yes.
Operator Your next question comes from the line of David Long with Raymond James.
Allen Parker Hi, David.
John Shrewsberry Hi, David.
David Long Good morning, everyone.
Looking at your securities portfolio, what type of yield do you have rolling off the securities book this quarter, and then what are you looking at for reinvestment yield?
Allen Parker Yes, I think in general we're reinvesting about 25 basis points down from what has been rolling off, and of course it depends on whether it's agency MBS, which is the bulk of our purchases.
We also have some treasuries and agency debentures, and we have some structured products and other things, but on average, I think our purchases in Q3 were just North of a 3% yield and what's been rolling off from a coupon perspective has been high threes from a yield perspective has been not terribly different than 3%.
So, in agency MBS in particular, I want to say that we're probably down, gosh, 25 to 25 plus basis points on a reinvestment rate basis.
David Long Okay, got it.
And then the second question I have relates to the potential future litigation losses and I know in the -- in your Q, you give the number and it seems to be rising in most course.
Do you have that number?
What the number may be here in the as of September 30?
Allen Parker No, it'll keep -- the number will keep being refined until we file the Q, which will happen in a couple of weeks.
So be on the lookout for that for the latest, which will include everything we know up until that day.
David Long Got it.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Allen Parker You bet.
Operator Your next question comes from the line of Vivek Juneja with JPMorgan.
John Shrewsberry Hi, Vivek.
Vivek Juneja Hi.
Hi, John.
I thought let me just start with a question that either if you could respond to.
So there was an issue that came up in the middle of the third quarter that the New York Times reported about accounts close that we were being charged fees after they were closed, can you give some color on this issue when it was discovered, a number of customers, what's involved?
Were you on the timeline of all of this, and actually overarching why this even is coming up now?
Allen Parker Vivek, thank you for the question, I guess what I would say is that at this point, there's really not any further information that we can give you with regard to that situation.
We have obviously in response to the article that appeared gone back and looked at all our account closure information and we've been working very hard.
closely with our regulatory agencies ever since then, we're at the point now where we're coming to some conclusions about what happened, but it would frankly be premature at this point for me to really give you any information in that regard, and we're taking a look at what happened.
We're trying to determine the veracity of what was said in the New York Times.
And perhaps most important, we're trying to determine whether we ought to make any changes at all with regard to the way that we've been conducting ourselves in that arena.
I wish I could be more forthcoming in terms of information, but it's still in progress, and it's been an effort in which we've been engaged very closely with our regulators.
Vivek Juneja You mean when you say conducting yourselves as in just the whole process of how it works, account closures et cetera or something else?
Allen Parker Yes, the whole process of account closures is complicated in any financial institution because there are situations where people close their accounts voluntarily, whether they call a call center or they walk into a branch, and there are also situations where accounts have to be closed for legal or regulatory reasons, and there are a variety of considerations that go into how that's done, and we're going through very carefully and looking at all those considerations and coming to the conclusion as to the changes, if any, that we ought to make with respect to the way that we've handled ourselves in the past.
Vivek Juneja Completely separate question for John.
John, you mentioned about the promotional retail deposits.
Are you completely stopping it?
Are you just reducing the rates that you're offering by the amount of rate cuts that you've seen which is what several other players have done with their higher yield offerings?
John Shrewsberry So there always be some level of promotional activities should reflect the market conditions that we're competing in both in terms of rates and terms.
I think like a lot of people and with the expectation of lower rates shortening up initial terms, so that we are not overpaying for a longer period of time, they might have previously felt like it was necessary in a rising rate environment.
So we've -- there's some of it in the third quarter, we've eased off on pricing, we've eased off on terms, but just like your firm, there will always be some amount of it to make sure that we're competitive market-by-market and to test and learn.
Vivek Juneja All right.
One last, if I may.
You in the past have given us loans to non-depository financials outstanding.
Could you give the number what that is this quarter?
John Shrewsberry Let's see.
I'm looking at the papers around me here.
I don't think it's changed much during the course of the quarter.
Yes, I don't know.
We'll follow-up with you on that.
There wasn't a meaningful move in that category during the course of the quarter, but I'm not having handy.
Vivek Juneja Okay, thanks.
Operator Your next question comes from the line of Eric Compton with Morningstar.
Allen Parker Hi, Eric.
Eric Compton Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
So my first question is you made the comment that one of the areas of expenses that you expect to be helping you meet your full-year guidance is from that other professional fees line item, and I was just curious if you have any more color around why that might be dropping?
What might be causing that, if that's related to perhaps progress on some of the risk and compliance spending and maybe taking some more or higher percentage of those activities in-house?
Any more color on what's driving that?
John Shrewsberry Yes, that's a good question.
So some of it is definitely having taken some of it in-house.
The amount by which we're talking about it changing frankly isn't indicative of a giant pivot one way or the other; it's still a category that's too high.
It represents both consulting type firms where we've been getting expertise as well as labor augmentation or staff augmentation, particularly in technology labor where we've been, we've been hiring people as contractors, where we haven't been able to hire as quickly as necessary.
I think like all firms, there's a portion of our workforce in that area that is on contract.
So with the shift in the fourth quarter is the current forecast just based on what's rolled on and what's rolled off and the current body of work, but there's still a lot of it going on.
It's still a level that's too high, and as we roll forward and think about what efficient looks like, there's no doubt that that category coming down, substantially will be high on the list of sources in a more efficient state to be operating in.
Eric Compton Okay, that's helpful, and then one last question.
I appreciate it, if you don't want to comment on this too much, but just going back to the legal reserve estimate, understanding the official number will come out in the Q, but we had that $800 million jump and now we're getting that $1.6 billion charge or the jump in the high-end of the legal reserve estimate, and now the charge in the current quarter and just the operating losses, and just curious if there's any color on, do you get a sense we're starting to get more towards the light at the end of the tunnel when it comes to this?
Should we start see this, the legal reserve estimates start to trend down?
Is that your sense?
Just any more color around, I guess, behind the scenes, what's going on there?
John Shrewsberry As you preface to your question with we really can't provide anything in the way of color on this.
As you know, we don't provide information as to the portion of our reserves that's applicable to any particular litigation or other items and with regard to the DOJ and SEC investigations that began in 2006, we really don't have any update beyond what we said in our prepared remarks and what we previously disclosed in our last quarter 10-Q, our discussions with the DOJ and SEC are ongoing and when we have more information to disclose, we'll of course do so.
Eric Compton Absolutely, you said 2006 you meant 16?
John Shrewsberry Yes, I'm sorry.
There is nothing from 2006.
Allen Parker Nothing from 2006, thankfully.
Eric Compton Okay.
And I appreciate it.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Allen Parker Sure.
And while the next one is coming back, the number is $104 billion as of September 30 for the exposure, total exposure to non-bank financials.
Operator Your next question will come from the line of Saul Martinez with UBS.
Saul Martinez Hey, guys, thanks for taking my question.
Good morning.
So I feel like hate to beat a dead horse with the NII, but I feel like either I'm taking the guidance to literally or missing something, but the outlook is still for NII to decline 6% on the reported basis and I guess $1.8 billion decline versus the first-half, it seems to suggest that the fourth quarter NII is roughly about $11 billion and even if you do a little bit better than that, it still implies in a pretty substantial declines in NII in NIM degradation, the fourth quarter versus the third quarter and everything a lot of what you said John, in terms of less incremental headwind from premium, deposit costs maybe starting to peak out and even reduce a little bit or fall a little bit next quarter.
The piece to headwind from the purchase credit impaired PCI should start to moderate just because you're selling less of it at least on a sequential basis.
It seems like that the balance sheet mix and re-pricing element is pretty pronounced to get there.
So I guess what am I missing and is it really just that the impact of the rate cuts, the lower long end, is that pronounced in terms of the impact on asset yield?
John Shrewsberry Well, I think at the asset side that's sort of fully reflecting re-pricing down.
We talked about the deposit costs not being higher, probably being a little bit lower, and it gets you to the types of numbers that you described.
Saul Martinez Okay.
John Shrewsberry Very close.
Saul Martinez Okay, but the math is right, I guess the math is right that 6% would be in the 11 billion or so range for the fourth quarter on a reported basis?
John Shrewsberry That's right.
Saul Martinez Okay, all right.
I just wanted to be clear.
So wanted to just maybe ask about a different topic and I apologize I was on a little bit late at Allen if you addressed it, but any update on where you stand on the consent order and remediating the operational risks and controls, and it seems like there's a lot of blocking and tackling there in terms of all of the processes that you're looking at identifying risk and controls and were appropriate remediating those.
Can you just give us a sensing on, you know, regardless of what the Fed does and when they lift it, where you feel like you are in that process and do you feel like you need to get past that before you can really attack the cost structure in a meaningful way?
Allen Parker Yes.
Thanks.
Let me start on that and I'll turn it out to John, I mean our conversation with our regulators are of course confidential supervisory information, but I can say that our engagement with the regulators has been very constructive and we're in constant dialogue with them on a number of fronts.
As everybody recalls, several of the regulators made public statements earlier in the year in which they express their disappointment with the progress we've made up until that time.
In response to that criticism, which of course we accepted over the last six months, we re-coupled our efforts with regard to trying to satisfy their expectations, and I made clear, I know Charlie will as well that the entire Wells Fargo team must continue to act assertively and decisively to meet the regulators expectations going forward.
With regard to the issues raised in the Fed consent order, the feedback that we are getting from the Fed on a constant basis is enabling us to continue to make progress in terms of responding to their expectations.
We're a good ways down the road, but I think it's fair to say that we have a substantial amount of additional work to do and of course at the same time we've designed and implemented and we're constantly working -- doing enhance our new risk management framework, and that's fundamentally transforming how we manage risk every day throughout the organization in a way that I would describe as much more comprehensive integrated and consistent, and at the same time, we're enhancing frontline risk, independent risk management and the audit function.
So that we can ensure multiple layers of review and better visibility into issues as they emerge, and obviously the goal of all this is to prevent the occurrence of the kinds of issues that we had in the past.
And as John alluded to before, we're also emphasizing operational excellence throughout the company.
Our biggest focus there is on business process management in an effort to try to deliver greater consistency.
So I guess what I will say, and I'll turn it over to John to talk about some of the financial impacts.
There is a great deal of work to do to meet the expectations of our regulators.
They're appropriately high, but we're committed to completing that work.
We're working very hard and we're confident that we'll be able to complete the work in a manner that's timely and just as important up to the highest standards of professionalism and durability going forward.
John Shrewsberry Yes.
And so, to the second part of your question, so we've had these efficiency programs in place for the last few years, which began before this biggest push in response to the Fed consent order and some other regulatory feedback, but through that process, we've got hundreds of programs that have gone activity-by-activity and said about taking unnecessary costs out, and then at the same time we've embarked on this getting it right from an operational risk, compliance, governance perspective, including all of the enabling technology, which is where all this money is being reinvested.
So, as I mentioned earlier on this call, the big opportunity once Wells Fargo both internally and from a regulatory perspective has chin the bar for being excellent at operational risk, compliance, and governance overall like that we believe that we are in credit risk and some other areas, is a massive simplification because as we go down this business process management path, we inventory and uncover the fact that we do just about everything we do in many different ways, and there is a huge opportunity to compress that to get more consistent.
It improves the customer experience, the team member experience.
It's easier to control.
It's easier to automate, and it's much less expensive to deliver, and I think from an investor perspective, it's important to know that we are fixing our status quo Wells Fargo the way that our individual processes have currently operate and then there is the opportunity to re-engineer.
Now that may look different after we have sat down and done a complete strategic review with Charlie, but it is how the team has set about doing the business or doing the remediation that's necessary to improve the company today starting with the way things are done today, but there is from my perspective an extraordinary efficiency opportunity in modernizing that.
Saul Martinez Great.
That's really helpful.
Thank you.
Operator Your final question will come from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
John Shrewsberry Hi, Betsy.
Betsy Graseck Hi, good morning.
Two quick questions, one just on MSR revaluation, I mean I realized that there was some pre pays in the quarter, and I know that you guys are really good estimating that.
So just wondering if there was something else?
Or, was it just a more violent movement expected?
And is it a onetime in your opinion that it's not going to pop back up I would expect, but just wanted to get your understanding on that?
John Shrewsberry Yes.
Well, it was a bigger move than was expected, and I am always -- I am reluctant to say that it could never happen again, but the way we estimate the customer response to their in the moneyness for a refinance given what we know about -- what type of cohort they are following is the basis of how we estimate that, and it happens -- it's been happening at a faster pace, and so we think we have captured that in this valuation adjustment.
Betsy Graseck Okay, and then on the auto lending side, I know you highlighted that the reconfiguration, restructuring of that business is now finish, and we saw some really strong results this quarter with originations up.
What was it, 9% linked quarter?
Do you feel like it's the start of the rebalancing of that auto business?
Is this is a run rate that you think you can keep for the - I don't know foreseeable future?
I am just trying to get a sense of the sizing of the auto book that you think you can get back to post this restructuring of that business?
John Shrewsberry Yes, my sense is that if we still liked the risk reward, so if consumer credit stays about where it is and if used car value stay about where they are, that there is an opportunity for us to grow further.
So as I mentioned, the growth that we have gotten so far is really by doing more in the same upper rationale on credit tiers, and we previously ran the business with -- including little bit more in the -- at least in the non-prime category, and my sense is that we will probably begin to do that too over the course of the next couple of quarters.
We are easing into it, but I don't think of this uptick as aberrant, and I think that there is more to do.
Betsy Graseck Okay, thanks.
John Shrewsberry Yes.
Allen Parker Let me close our call by thanking all of you for your questions and for joining our third quarter conference call.
As always, I would also like to thank all our team members for their hard work, dedication, and enthusiasm.
Best regards to you all.
Take care.
Operator Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference.
Thank you all for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Starbucks Corporation (NASDAQ:SBUX) Q4 2019 Earnings Conference Call October 30, 2019 4:30 PM ET EPS of $0.7 Revenue of $6.75B (7.03% Y/Y) beats by $59.58M  Company Participants Durga Doraisamy - Vice President of Investor Relations Kevin Johnson - President & Chief Executive Officer Pat Grismer - Chief Financial Officer Roz Brewer - Chief Operating Officer & Group President Americas John Culver - Group President, International Channel Development & Global Coffee & Tea.
Conference Call Participants David Tarantino - Baird Katherine Fogertey - Goldman Sachs Jeffrey Bernstein - Barclays Sara Senatore - AllianceBernstein David Palmer - Evercore ISI John Ivankoe - JPMorgan Sharon Zackfia - William Blair Matthew DiFrisco - Guggenheim Securities Dennis Geiger - UBS Operator Good afternoon.
My name is Hector, and I'll be your conference operator today.
I would like to welcome everyone to Starbucks Coffee Company's Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2019 Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Durga Doraisamy, Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms. Doraisamy, you may now begin your conference.
Durga Doraisamy Good afternoon, everyone and thank you for joining us today to discuss our fourth quarter and fiscal year 2019 results.
Today's discussion will be led by Kevin Johnson, President and CEO; and Pat Grismer, CFO.
And for Q&A we will be joined by Roz Brewer, Chief Operating Officer and Group President Americas; John Culver, Group President, International Channel Development and Global Coffee and Tea.
This conference call will include forward-looking statements, which are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from these statements.
Any such statements should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements in our earnings release and risk factor discussions in our filings with the SEC including our last Annual Report on Form 10-K. Starbucks assumes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements or information.
GAAP results in fiscal 2019 include several items related to strategic actions including restructuring and impairment charges, transaction and integration costs, and other items.
These items are excluded from our non-GAAP results.
Please refer to our website at investor.starbucks.com to find the reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures referenced in today's call with their corresponding GAAP measures.
Additionally as previously announced, restated GAAP and non-GAAP quarterly financial information for fiscal 2018 and through Q3 fiscal 2019 reflecting our realigned operating segment reporting structure and reclassification of certain costs can also be accessed on our Investor Relations website.
I would like to note that during today's call, we will be providing select presentation materials, which can be accessed via the webcast of this call and on our IR website at the conclusion of the call.
An archive of the webcast will be available on our website through Thursday, November 28, 2019.
Finally, for your calendar planning purposes, please note that our first quarter fiscal year 2020 earnings conference call has been tentatively scheduled for Tuesday, January 28, 2020.
I will now turn the call over to Kevin.
Kevin Johnson Well, good afternoon, and welcome.
As part of my ongoing visits to Starbucks stores around the world, I'm joining today's call from Tokyo.
On this particular trip John Culver and I are joined by Nestlé senior executives to discuss our collective strategies for growth and review the great progress our teams have made implementing Global Coffee Alliance.
Today I'm pleased to share that Starbucks delivered strong operating results again in Q4, capping off a transformative year for the company as we continue to execute our Growth at Scale agenda with focus and discipline.
Pat will review our financial results in more detail later in the call, but I'll start by sharing performance highlights for the quarter and the year as well as some key actions we've taken and important investments we've made to enable predictable, sustainable growth while delivering value for all our stakeholders as we build an enduring company at Starbucks.
In the fourth quarter, Starbucks delivered revenue growth of 10% excluding the 3% impact of streamline activities and foreign exchange led by global comp sales growth of 5% and net store growth of 7% year-over-year.
These strong operating results yielded non-GAAP EPS of $0.70 for the quarter up 13% from last year.
In the U.S., we posted comp sales growth of 6% in Q4 including comp transaction growth of 3%.
That's a two-year sales comp of 10% for Q4 a sequential improvement over our very strong results in Q3 and our best performance in the U.S. in over two years.
In China we posted 5% comp sales growth in Q4 including comp transaction growth of 2%.
That's a two-year sales comp of 6% for Q4 demonstrating continued positive momentum in our fastest-growing business, where we increased our store base by 17% over the prior year.
For the fiscal year, Starbucks delivered record results in both total net revenues and non-GAAP EPS.
Total net revenues were $26.5 billion up 10% over the prior year when adjusted for streamline activities and foreign exchange.
This included 5% global comp sales growth for the year in over 1,900 net new stores globally, yielding a record non-GAAP EPS of $2.83 for fiscal year 2019 up 17% versus prior year.
With more than 31,000 stores in 82 markets welcoming over 100 million customer occasions each week and enabling over one billion digital customer occasions per year, Starbucks is a part of our customers' everyday routines around the world.
And I applaud, the 400,000 green apron partners, who deliver a premium Starbucks Experience to every customer they serve.
Because of our partners, we are achieving even higher levels of customer loyalty and brand preference.
Now let me highlight some of the key initiatives and investments that drove our strong growth in fiscal 2019.
And have laid the groundwork for what we expect will be another year of strong operating performance, in fiscal 2020.
In keeping with our Growth at Scale agenda, I will talk about how we're accelerating growth in the U.S. and China.
How we're extending the reach of our brand through the Global Coffee Alliance with Nestlé.
And how we've increased stakeholder returns.
Now I'm very proud of the progress the team has made against our three focused initiatives to accelerate growth in our U.S. business, enhancing the in-store experience, delivering relevant beverage innovation, and driving digital relationships.
We have strong evidence that our approach is working, as demonstrated by the fact that we are seeing traffic growth across all day parts.
And we intend to build on this momentum in the year ahead.
We continue to see a strong correlation between Starbucks partner engagement and customer connection, which leads to increased customer frequency.
This reinforces our belief that the Starbucks Experience, delivered by our partners is a key competitive advantage.
And therefore, we are making targeted investments to elevate the partner experience, with clear evidence that this in turn elevates the customer experience and drives growth.
Throughout fiscal 2019 in the U.S., we invested in our partners, by allocating additional store labor, increasing store-level training, and simplifying in-store tasks, often with new technology.
For example, we introduced a new staffing and scheduling system to optimize labor allocations based on partner preferences and predictive analytics.
These investments in our partners collectively elevated customer connections as evidenced by an all-time high in customer connection scores in Q4.
And we will build on this momentum, with incremental partner investments in fiscal year 2020.
We also continue to invest in beverage innovation.
And I'm pleased to say that beverages contributed five points of our U.S. comp sales growth in the fourth quarter, led by the strength of our cold beverage platform.
We completed our rollout of Nitro Cold Brew across company-operated stores in the U.S., this summer and introduced new cold pumpkin beverage offering, the Pumpkin Cream Cold Brew.
And we're very encouraged by its reception.
We expect this momentum to continue, as we move into the favorable holiday season.
And we look forward to sharing more details with you in the weeks ahead.
And finally, we have continued to pursue new opportunities to expand digital customer relationships, investing to meet customers' increasing desire for convenience and personalized offers.
Supported by the successful launch of multi-tier redemption in early Q3, we saw U.S. Starbucks Rewards grow to 17.6 million active members at the end of Q4, a year-over-year increase of 15%.
This is an important growth driver because we know from experience, that when customers join Starbucks Rewards their spend level with Starbucks increases meaningfully.
On our last earnings call, I outlined the important strategic role that our digital flywheel plays in growing digital customer relationships.
Clearly, that strategy is working.
I want to highlight another very important element of our digital strategy, artificial intelligence.
Over this past year, we have been dialling up our in-house capabilities and investments in AI with an initiative we call, Deep Brew.
Deep Brew will increasingly power our personalization engine, optimize store labor allocations, and drive inventory management in our stores.
We plan to leverage Deep Brew in ways that free up our partners, so that they can spend more time connecting with customers.
Deep Brew is a key differentiator for the future.
And as we continue our quest to build world-class AI capabilities, to better support partners.
Moving on to how we've accelerated growth in China, looking back over this past year, I'm very pleased with the progress we've made to capitalize on one of the world's most compelling growth opportunities led by strong store development, expanded digital customer engagement, and category-leading innovation.
Store development continues to be our number one driver of growth in China.
We opened over 600, net new stores in fiscal 2019, and crossed the 4,000 store mark, while maintaining best-in-class new store returns.
As we expand our store footprint, we have also been investing in innovative retail formats, including our Starbucks Now store in Beijing that opened in July, a unique, express retail experience, that seamlessly integrates physical and digital touch points, to enhance the Mobile Order & Pay, and the Starbucks Delivers customer experience.
We are seeing encouraging early results from this new format.
And in China we plan to open new Starbucks Now stores in top tier cities in fiscal 2020, leveraging this new store format to complement the third place store formats and increase market penetration.
As we've expanded our physical presence in China, we've also made significant strides expanding our digital presence in this fast-growing market.
The Starbucks Rewards program in China, which we upgraded in December 2018, continues to rapidly drive new membership.
At the end of Q4, active members reached 10 million, up 45% over the prior year.
To support this growth, we up-leveled our Tmall flagship store in September to offer our Starbucks Rewards members, exclusive products and a tailor-made gift experience.
And we enabled members to earn Stars from online shopping.
We recently celebrated the one-year anniversary of our China digital partnership with Alibaba, and I'm pleased to share that we surpassed our goal of expanding Starbucks Delivers to 3,000 stores in 100 cities by the end of the fiscal year.
This propelled mobile order sales mix in China to 10% in the fourth quarter with seven points coming from Starbucks Delivers and three points from our recently launched mobile order for pickup.
In the fourth quarter, we also ushered in a new era of digital customer engagement in China with the launch of voice ordering and delivery via Tmall Genie, as we continue to enhance the customer experience around mobile ordering.
These elevated digital experiences are key drivers of accelerated growth in Starbucks Rewards membership in China and provides significant momentum for us to introduce further innovations in fiscal year 2020 as we work to constantly elevate the customer experience and reward loyalty.
Moving on to the Global Coffee Alliance, just one year after announcing this alliance with Nestlé, we have launched three new coffee platforms in over 30 new markets: Starbucks by Nespresso, Starbucks by Dolce Gusto, and Starbucks roast and ground coffee.
We did this in record time and ahead of schedule.
In addition to the coffee platforms, we also launched a new product category Starbucks Creamers in North America in Q4.
We entered China's at-home and food service segments through the alliance, allowing Chinese consumers to enjoy some of their favorite Starbucks coffees in the comfort of their home.
This partnership has enabled us to accelerate the global reach of the Starbucks brand in key markets.
And looking ahead, we plan to be in 50 global markets in the first half of 2020.
Moving on to returns to one of our key stakeholder groups, our shareholders.
In the fourth quarter, we returned nearly $3 billion to shareholders through a combination of share repurchases and dividends bringing our full year shareholder capital returns to $12 billion.
Including what we returned in fiscal year 2018, we've now returned approximately $21 billion to shareholders, well on our way to meeting our three-year commitment of $25 billion by the end of fiscal year 2020.
And I'm pleased to share that our board has approved a 14% dividend increase this quarter, making the 10th consecutive year that we've increased our dividend by a double-digit percentage.
Our Growth at Scale model combined with our strong balance sheet position Starbucks to have the financial flexibility to both invest in our growth and reward our shareholders.
In closing, our fiscal year 2019 performance gives us confidence that our Growth at Scale agenda is helping unlock the full potential of the Starbucks brand.
With great intentionality, we've invested in our partners, in technology and in our stores to drive long-term growth.
And we’ve made significant progress to streamline our company through organizational restructuring and through the licensing of some international markets, enabling us to bring even more focus and discipline to the core of our business.
This has helped us to accelerate the pace of innovation at Starbucks, both at the support center and in the field to deliver relevant, meaningful and inspiring experiences for our partners and our customers.
And with the plans that we've developed for fiscal year 2020 including continued investment, we are excited about our ability to sustain this growth in the years ahead.
Reflecting back on the historic Starbucks Leadership Experience, we hosted in Chicago last month, it is my strong belief that the store manager plays a pivotal role in the growth and success of our company.
That is why we convened 12,000 store managers and field leaders from the U.S. and Canada to reflect on and celebrate our mission and values while recommitting to the shared belief that by better serving our partners we enable them to stand shoulder-to-shoulder and create best moments for our customers.
This is at the center of who we are as a company, and will remain a guiding light as we go forward.
The Chicago leadership experience was an important milestone in our journey, and we will be back in Chicago again next month for another key milestone, the opening of our sixth Starbucks Reserve Roastery.
This will be the largest Starbucks store in the world, a beautifully designed iconic store on Michigan Avenue.
And I can't wait to celebrate this opening with our partners and customers, and we hope to see many of you there soon.
With that, I'll turn over the call to Pat and look forward to taking your questions later in the call.
Pat?
Pat Grismer Thank you, Kevin, and good afternoon, everyone.
There are three key points that I want to emphasize today.
First, fiscal 2019 was a very good year for Starbucks financially, reflecting sustained upward momentum in our business.
Second, we are confident in our ability to deliver non-GAAP operating income growth of 8% to 10% in fiscal 2020, underpinned by revenue growth of 6% to 8% demonstrating modest margin expansion even as we continue to invest for the long term.
And third, we remain fully committed to our long-term model of double-digit non-GAAP EPS growth.
I will begin by sharing segment highlights for our fourth quarter and an overview of key trends across fiscal 2019 followed by our guidance for fiscal 2020.
Our Americas segment delivered 9% revenue growth in Q4 driven by comp sales growth of 6% and net new store growth of 3% over the past 12 months.
Lapping 4% comp sales growth in Q4 of last year, our U.S. business delivered an impressive 6% comp sales growth in Q4 of this year, driven equally by transactions and average ticket.
These results were led by an improved in-store experience a strong beverage lineup and increased digital engagement as Kevin mentioned.
Transactions grew across all dayparts for the second consecutive quarter and beverage led our comp growth for a fifth consecutive quarter driving five points of comp sales growth with food contributing the remaining point.
The majority of the beverage growth was driven by our cold platform, which grew across all dayparts led by cold coffee, refreshment and tea.
The Nitro Cold Brew platform, which reached full penetration of our company-operated stores by the end of Q4, and was supported by national advertising for the first time in August continued to be well received drawing more occasional customers and slightly favoring the afternoon daypart.
Our fall beverage lineup also performed extremely well, driven by the success of our pumpkin platform, along with cold coffee and Nitro.
Beverage attach, beverage mix and pricing contributed evenly to the 3% growth in the average ticket for the quarter.
Americas' non-GAAP operating margin contracted by 100 basis points to 20.2% in Q4 primarily due to the onetime investment in our leadership conference as we've discussed on previous calls growth in wages and benefits and increased investments in labor hours to elevate the in-store experience, while accommodating higher volumes.
These increases in expense more than offset meaningful contributions from sales leverage and cost savings initiatives, notably supply chain efficiencies.
Moving on to our International segment which delivered revenue growth of 6% on a reported basis in Q4.
Excluding the unfavorable impact of streamline-related activities and foreign exchange at 5% and 1% respectively, revenue grew 12% in the quarter.
This was driven by 11% net new store growth over the past 12 months and 3% comp sales growth.
I would now like to highlight the fourth quarter performance of our lead international growth market, China.
New store development continues to be our number one driver of growth in China and I'm pleased to say that, our pace of development in Q4 set a new record as we opened 201 net new stores growing store count by 17% versus the prior year.
Importantly, our new stores continued to deliver exceptionally high returns even as we extended our presence to new cities, while infilling established cities.
China delivered comp sales growth of 5% in Q4, including 2% comp transaction growth led by the strength in digital customer engagement, primarily the growth of delivery Starbucks Rewards loyalty program and MOP.
Our International segments non-GAAP operating margin increased by 70 basis points to 21.7% in Q4.
When excluding the 60 basis point favorable impact from streamline-related activities, the segment's non-GAAP operating margin increased by 10 basis points as the benefits of sales leverage cost savings initiatives and labor productivity were largely offset by growth in wages and benefits, an unfavorable shift in product mix and strategic investments.
On to Channel Development, revenue declined 6% in Q4.
Excluding the impact of streamline-related activities primarily the Global Coffee Alliance segment revenues increased approximately 5%.
Non-GAAP operating margin declined by 510 basis points to 37.6% in Q4, when excluding the 310 basis point impact related to streamline, Channel Development's operating margin declined 200 basis points in Q4 fiscal 2019, primarily due to an and unfavorable shift in revenue mix.
I'd now like to take a step back and share some key insights from our full year performance underscoring our upward momentum across the year.
Let's start with revenue.
For the year, we reported top line growth of 7%.
Excluding the 3% unfavorable impact of streamline and foreign exchange combined our revenues grew 10% above our long-term growth algorithm of 7% to 9%.
These results demonstrate our potential to outperform our long-term model.
In the first six months of fiscal 2019 be reversed the negative trend in U.S. comp transaction growth that had persisted for several quarters and sustained it at 3% in the second half of the year.
The turnaround in China's comp transaction growth moving from declines in the low to mid-single digits last year to an increase of 2% this year was equally impressive, especially considering our accelerated pace of store development in that market.
And speaking of China development it's worth noting that our store openings in lower-tier cities in China accounted for a meaningfully higher percentage of total store growth in that market versus the prior year.
Yet portfolio investment returns remained very robust demonstrating Starbucks' resonance with China's growing middle class.
Our store development in the U.S. was also quite healthy as we grew net new stores by 3% in fiscal over 19 even with the higher level of closures relative to the prior year as we repositioned our store portfolio for future growth.
This is industry-leading domestic growth for a retail business of Starbucks' scale and coupled with relatively low penetration in certain geographies gives us confidence that we'll continue to achieve our 3% to 4% ongoing net new store growth target in the U.S. Moving to margin.
We reported consolidated operating margin of 17.2% for fiscal 2019 on a non-GAAP basis, down 80 basis points year-over-year and in line with our ongoing model of 17% to 18%.
That said, I would like to highlight some anomalous items that impacted our year-over-year margin performance, four headwinds and one tailwind.
The four headwinds were 70 basis points from streamline-driven activities; 50 basis points from U.S. tax reform-funded investments; 20 basis points from Siren Retail; and another 20 basis points from our onetime investment in the Chicago leadership conference.
The one tailwind was 40 basis points from stored value card breakage due to a change in accounting treatment.
Adjusting for all these items, consolidated non-GAAP operating margin was up 40 basis points, reflecting the benefits of sales leverage and productivity improvements, partially offset by nontax reform-funded investments in our partners, technology, product innovation and stores.
As Kevin mentioned earlier, we believe these investments are critical to strengthening our competitive position in order to sustain long-term growth consistent with our ongoing growth algorithm.
And finally EPS.
We reported full year non-GAAP EPS of $2.83 above the high end of our previous guidance.
Excluding a 7% benefit from unplanned tax favorability and a 1% benefit from streamline-related activities, partially offset by a 1% headwind from foreign exchange, non-GAAP EPS growth was 10% consistent with our long-term EPS growth model of at least 10%.
So in summary, our fiscal 2019 results not only reinforce our confidence in the strategies we're implementing to grow the business, but also demonstrate the robustness of our long-term double-digit EPS growth algorithm.
Moving on to our guidance for fiscal 2020 starting with the key driver of our growth company-operated comp sales growth.
Globally, we are expecting comp sales growth of 3% to 4% in fiscal 2020 fueled by our two lead growth markets: the U.S. at 3% at 4% and China at 1% to 3%.
All of this is consistent with our ongoing growth model.
Moving on to the next key growth driver retail store development.
We expect to add approximately 2000 net new Starbucks stores globally in fiscal 2020 a sequential improvement over fiscal 2019.
Over half will be located in the U.S. and China combined with China delivering approximately 600 net new stores representing mid-teens growth versus the prior year.
As with comp growth this is consistent with our ongoing growth model.
With his combination of comp growth and unit growth, we are expecting enterprise-level top line growth of 6% to 8% in fiscal 2020.
The one percentage point difference between next year's expected revenue growth and our ongoing growth model of 7% to 9% revenue growth is attributable to two things: number one the sale of our ownership interest in Thailand in mid-fiscal 2019; and number two an expected 7% to 8% decline in Channel Development's revenue as we lap certain items related to the Global Coffee Alliance that benefited the segment's top line growth in fiscal 2019.
Adjusting for these items, Channel Development's revenue growth in fiscal 2020 is expected to be at the lower end of our ongoing range of 4% to 6%.
The Global Coffee Alliance became EPS accretive in fiscal 2019, outperforming our original expectations.
And we expect it to continue to be EPS accretive on a cumulative basis, including the associated share repurchase benefit funded in Q1 of fiscal 2019 by $5 billion of after-tax proceeds from Nestlé.
Let's move on to fiscal 2020 operating margin.
Globally and across each of our operating segments, non-GAAP operating margin is expected to improve modestly over fiscal 2019, primarily due to sales leverage, cost savings initiatives across our supply chain and overhead efficiencies.
The favorability from these items is expected to be partially offset by continued investments in our company-operated retail business primarily related to our partners and technology.
Let me add two additional points to the operating margin equation for fiscal 2020.
First, commodities are expected to have minimal year-over-year impact on cost of goods sold, as we expect favorability in green coffee prices, net of farmer support payments to be more than offset by higher dairy costs.
At this point, our overall coffee needs are over 80% price locked for fiscal 2020.
Second, a few comments on G&A.
Net of investments, we expect meaningful G&A leverage in fiscal 2020 due to organizational efficiencies, the completion of Roastery development and the lap of our leadership conference.
The recent reclassification of certain line items in the middle of our P&L also meaningfully benefits G&A, while adversely impacting store operating expenses.
As a result, while our long-term operating income margin target of 17% to 18% still includes a 100 basis point overhead efficiency improvement through fiscal 2021, it is now spread across G&A and store operating expenses.
Below the operating income line, we expect considerably higher interest expense ranging between $415 million and $425 million in fiscal 2020 versus approximately $330 million in fiscal 2019.
This is driven by debt issuances totaling $5 billion in the past 14 months combined with what we expect to issue this fiscal year.
Importantly, we remain committed to maintaining our leverage ratio below three times adjusted debt to EBITDAR.
As to the tax rate in fiscal 2020, we expect our effective GAAP and non-GAAP tax rates to be between 22% and 24%.
This compares with a non-GAAP rate of 19.4% in fiscal 2019, which benefited from certain unplanned tax items that are not expected to repeat to the same degree in fiscal 2020.
Capital expenditures in fiscal 2020 are expected to total approximately $1.8 billion roughly flat to fiscal 2019, reflecting the opening of our final Roastery next month and the licensing of several company operated markets.
Over 80% of our capital spending in fiscal 2020 will be allocated to where we see significant return opportunities within our Starbucks retail portfolio, new stores and strategic store-related initiatives including renovations of existing locations.
Finally, at this juncture, we foresee minimal impact from foreign currency movements in fiscal 2020.
So when you add it all up, our total revenue growth of 6% to 8% for fiscal 2020 is expected to translate into non-GAAP operating income growth of 8% to 10% consistent with our ongoing growth model.
We expect GAAP EPS in the range of $2.84 to $2.89, down slightly from fiscal 2019 due largely to the lap of the one-time gain attributable to the licensing of our Thailand operations.
We expect non-GAAP EPS in the range of $3 to $3.05, representing growth of 6% to 8%.
Excluding the increase in our effective tax rate as we lap certain items that benefited fiscal 2019, this equates to expected non-GAAP EPS growth of 11% to 13% in fiscal 2020 consistent with our ongoing model of at least 10% EPS growth.
As a reminder, we expect the lap of income tax rate favorability for fiscal 2019 will impact our quarter-to-quarter non-GAAP EPS growth in fiscal 2020 with Q1 being the lowest at flat to down slightly given a nine percentage point EPS growth headwind tied to last year's tax rate.
Additionally, with the lap of the leadership conference in fiscal 2019, we expect year-over-year non-GAAP EPS growth to be at its highest in Q4 for fiscal 2020.
And with respect to quarterly cash flows, we expect to make a tax payment of approximately $1 billion related to the Nestlé transaction in early Q2.
So let me wrap things up.
First, we are very pleased with our in fiscal 2019 results.
Second, we expect that fiscal 2020 will be another good year for Starbucks, delivering 8% to 10% operating profit growth.
This demonstrates that we are executing very well from an operational perspective, underpinned by continued focus in discipline.
And third, we are fully committed to our long-term model of double-digit non-GAAP EPS growth and will continue to make the investments necessary to sustain this growth over the long term.
With that, Kevin and I are happy to take your questions joined by Roz Brewer and John Culver, as Durga outlined at the top of our call.
Thank you.
Operator?
Question-and-Answer Session Operator Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of David Tarantino with Baird.
Please proceed with your question.
David Tarantino Hi.
Good afternoon.
Congratulations on great results here.
My question is on the Americas traffic strength you've seen; it seems like you've picked up some momentum here even as you look at relative to the last quarter you're cycling a tougher comparison.
So I was wondering if you could just talk about the elements that drove that?
And whether operations -- I know you said you saw traffic positive throughout all the dayparts.
I'm wondering how big of an impact you think operations have versus some of the product news you had during the quarter?
Thanks.
Kevin Johnson David, thanks for the question.
Roz, do you want to take that one for us?
Roz Brewer Sure, I'll take that one.
David, thank you for the congratulations.
And it was a combination of both.
So within the quarter two things happened.
We -- beverage innovation continued, but we also promoted beverages pretty heavily in the quarter.
And so we promoted what the plans were for early July beginning with our flavored iced teas and then the fall beverage lineup highlighted by the pumpkin platform.
And that helped immensely in addition to the work that we've done to free up the work and the administrative work of our partners in the stores so that they can engage with the customers, allowed them to have great interactions and we were able to see that in all dayparts.
Additionally our drive-through business continues to grow well and you'll see that continue through fiscal year 2020.
I will also mention that the work that we continue to do to engage our customers from a digital perspective has also been helpful particularly when we introduced multitier redemption.
And that's allowing us to speak with our occasional customer and they're engaged in both the afternoon as well as our Happy Hour business.
Kevin Johnson And David I'll just punctuate.
The Growth at Scale agenda really is about delivering predictable sustainable growth.
And to do that we've really sharpened the focus on the elements that Roz mentioned and are executing with discipline.
So if you look at the three initiatives that we prioritize for this elevate the experience in our stores drive relevant beverage innovation for our customers and grow digital customer relationships.
Those three things are what's driving an all-time high in customer connection scores.
That is in turn driving traffic growth.
And those same three priorities that we've focused on throughout fiscal year 2019 will be the same ones we continue to drive in fiscal year 2020.
And that's part of what gives us confidence that we are pushing on the right elements that we think differentiates the Starbucks brand versus alternatives in the market, strengthens the connection between our partners and the customers, driving customer connection scores to an all-time high and in turn driving traffic and growth.
Operator Your next question comes from the line of Katherine Fogertey with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Katherine Fogertey Great.
Thank you.
My question actually is about the new espresso machines that you guys were trialing and testing, but it looks like you're rolling them out a little bit more broadly here.
Curious what kind of benefits you're seeing from the new machines both in customer satisfaction, quality, and throughput.
How many stores have them?
And how long will it take for the whole base to, at least in the company-owned side, to get an upgrade to these new machines?
Thank you.
Roz Brewer Yes.
So... Kevin Johnson Go ahead, Roz.
Roz Brewer Katherine – sure so concerning the Mastrena machines that you're referring to for espresso engagement in our stores yes, we are improving the number of Mastrena machines we have across the fleet.
In addition to that I think you're aware that we also placed Nitro machines in all of our U.S. company-operated stores as well.
This is representing the work that we're doing with beverage innovation.
We're continuing that expansion with Mastrena and should finish that work in the next 12 months or so.
Kevin Johnson Katherine, there's three key benefits of this new Mastrena machine that I want to really punctuate.
Number one, is it can pull a triple shot espresso with one pull.
Today in our older machines you have to pull a Doubleshot and then another single shot for any beverage that has three shots of espresso.
So just that alone reduces the amount of time that a partner at the bar would need to take if they're preparing a beverage that has three shots of espresso in it.
So that's number one big efficiency unlock.
Number two, those machines have Internet of Things sensors built into them.
And so we get telemetry data that comes into our support center.
We can see every shot of espresso that's being pulled and we can see centrally if there is a machine that's out there that needs tuning or maintenance.
And that allows us to improve the quality of the shots that we're pulling.
And third, with the Deep Brew and our predictive analytics, we're going to be able to determine if a machine needs preventative maintenance on it before it breaks.
And so that simplifies things for our partners.
John you want to comment on the-- John Culver I would just say Katherine on the international side we're also rolling the machines out internationally as well.
And I think the benefits that both Roz and Kevin hit on are important benefits that we're seeing translate into the international markets as well.
I would also just add that our partners absolutely love these machines and it gives them much more visibility to the customer due to the lower profile of the machine itself being able to interact with customers and engage with them.
And the benefits thus far are very meaningful for the business across all markets.
Operator Your next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Bernstein with Barclays.
Please proceed with your question.
Jeffrey Bernstein Great.
Thank you very much.
Question relates to China.
Clearly, it seems like you're back to solid mid-single-digit growth the past couple of quarters.
I'm wondering using 2020 hindsight here maybe what you think were the greatest challenges over the fourth quarter period or so where it seems like the comp trends were really challenged whether you thought it was internal or macro or competition?
What do you think kind of resurrected that business?
And with that as a backdrop, again, having done mid-single-digits the past two quarters just wondering why you think the fiscal 2020 guidance for 1% to 3% is appropriate when it seems like you're on track and running ahead of that level?
Thank you.
Kevin Johnson Thanks Jeffrey.
John why don't you -- John Culver Yes, I think Jeffrey this -- what we're seeing in China is a direct result of the digital footprint that we've been able to build there as well as the meaningful innovation that we're bringing products in Modern Mixology and then the innovation that we're doing around our store footprint.
And digital obviously is moving very fast.
And for us, as Kevin highlighted in his comments, digital orders represent 10% of the business that we saw in the quarter, 7% of that coming through delivery which is an entirely new channel for us and then 3% coming through Mobile Order & Pay.
So, digital has had a meaningful impact a positive impact on the business.
And just beyond the comp performance we talk a lot about the acceleration of the store footprint and we had record new stores opened in the quarter.
We continue to see very strong economic returns.
We continue to see very strong revenue growth of 18% in the quarter, majority of that is driven by new stores.
And then new customers and existing customers frequenting our stores, total transactions in the market grew at solid double-digit for another quarter which is great results by the team.
So, feel very confident about our position in China and the work that the team is doing there.
Kevin Johnson Pat why don't you take the second question around that the Growth at Scale long-term Growth at Scale growth model and specifically the way we think about our comp guidance in China.
Pat Grismer Absolutely.
Jeff we are very pleased with our overall momentum that we're seeing in our business.
But it's premature to revise the ongoing long-term guidance that we provided at our 2018 Investor Day.
Our policy is to guide conservatively communicating expected outcomes that we have a high degree of confidence we can deliver.
It's the predictable sustainable growth that Kevin referenced earlier.
Specifically in relation to China, the market dynamics there that are impacting our comp are unchanged from where they were a year ago.
We are continuing to open new units at an accelerated pace.
And of course that puts pressure on existing units through sales transfer.
We're also continuing to see a slower overall growth rate in the economy.
And we're seeing a more intense level of competition, I would say in part because of the success of that we've enjoyed and the opportunity we've highlighted in the specialty retail coffee category.
So, when you take all of those together we believe that it is prudent to guide to comp growth in China in the range of 1% to 3% again consistent with our ongoing model.
We're delighted with the performance of the business this past year but it's -- and we certainly are optimistic about our ability to sustain strong performance into fiscal 2020.
But we believe it's prudent to reaffirm our guidance of 1% to 3%.
Operator Your next question comes from the line of Sara Senatore with AllianceBernstein.
Please proceed with your question.
Sara Senatore Thank you.
I wanted to ask a bit about some of the investments you've talked about making whether it's in the Americas or in China perhaps.
Because with such good comps you talked about a little bit of the offset and the headwinds from some of these investments.
So, in the Americas, when I look at the operating -- store operating expenses, it looks like it's grown a bit faster than top line.
Should we expect that to be the case going forward, which is to say this year was more like a step up in some of the investments you are making in your partners?
Or should we just expect that going forward in order to sustain the kind of service levels and customer and partner engagement you have, you're going to probably need to continue to invest at this pace?
And then with respect to China, if you could just talk about investments there and maybe even the product mix, you talked about as being unfavorable.
Is it value?
Or is it just food or other things that are going on?
Just some of the margin headwinds specifically please?
Kevin Johnson Pat, why don't I let you take that with Sara, and then we'll see if Roz and John need to add to it.
But why don't you go ahead and lead?
Pat Grismer Okay.
Thank you, Kevin.
Sara, what I'd like to do first is maybe just step -- take a step back and talk about Q4 in total.
In my prepared remarks, I talked about consolidated margin across all of fiscal 2019.
I'd like to focus more specifically on Q4 here, because the dynamics were a bit different.
So, on a reported basis, our non-GAAP operating margin of 17.2% represented a 90 basis point decline compared to Q4 of last year.
But what I would highlight is that embedded in that is a 70 basis point impact from our leadership conference as well as a 30 basis point impact from streamline-driven activities.
So when you exclude those, our non-GAAP operating margin actually improved 20 basis points.
Now I think your point, admittedly a 20 basis point margin improvement seems very modest in the context of a 5% global sales comp for the quarter, particularly in relation to other quarters.
So what I'd like to do is highlight what was unique to Q4, including recent trends impacting our flow through, which primarily relates to two margin drivers within our Americas segment.
The first driver relates to the investments we're making to sustain long-term growth exactly to your point.
Along with the tax reform funded investments in partner wages and benefits that we initiated in fiscal 2018, we invested in additional labor hours in Q4 to build on our positive sales momentum drive higher levels of customer connection and explore opportunities to unlock capacity in stores that we believe are best positioned to capture incremental sales at peak.
This effort tested the upper limits of investment potential to determine where the future payback could be greatest in terms of incremental sales.
This investment was not intended to completely payback during the quarter.
However, it provided us and this was our goal with a substantial amount of data.
And we're leveraging these insights to optimize our labor deployment going forward.
This is the artificial intelligence and machine learning that Kevin referred to earlier.
So, in addition to those labor hours, we also invested in store-level equipment, as Roz mentioned, to support new product platforms like Nitro Cold Brew and to improve our operating efficiency.
So that's the first driver, it’s really in the area of investment.
The second driver relates to inflationary pressures in wages and benefits as well as occupancy expense.
Now consistent with our discussion in Q3, we are seeing margin pressure from continued increases in statutory minimum wages coupled with inflationary increases in rent, culinary maintenance and real estate taxes.
All that said we do expect modest margin expansion in fiscal 2020 as we've guided as we continue to balance our investments with expected benefits from sales leverage and ongoing cost savings initiatives notably in our supply chain.
Now, I'd also like to take a minute or two to talk about China, because of the dynamics there are slightly different.
We do expect to continue to make investments there in order to sustain strong comp growth even as we have accelerated our pace of development.
But one thing that is slightly different is product mix.
Product mix in the last year -- and we foresee this continuing into fiscal 2020 is a bit of a headwind in China.
And one of the drivers of that is the growth in our delivery sales mix.
As we've discussed before, delivery transactions are on the margin dilutive to our total margin.
However, they are highly incremental.
So even while diluting our margin percentage, they grow total profit dollars.
And that is different from what we are seeing in our U.S. where delivery is in the very early stages and growing more immodesty.
So that is probably the key difference between China and the U.S.
But what is consistent across both and is an important part of our strategy going forward is continuing to make those strategic investments in our business that strengthen key points of competitive difference and help us to sustain top line growth for the long term.
But it does come at the expense of what would otherwise be much stronger margin expansion on the back of the consistent comp growth that we're expecting going forward.
Operator Your next question comes from the line of David Palmer with Evercore ISI.
Please proceed with your question.
David Palmer Great.
Thanks.
Good evening.
Question on the key drivers between the U.S. and China.
Even as I listened to this call, it sounds like there is an interesting contrast where China's more of a digital flywheel story with that 45% growth in rewards and you had that big jump up in digital order partly fueled by delivery.
In the U.S., you've had that mid-teens growth in rewards users.
But all the while this year you've been ramping up as your cold beverage growth seems to be ramping.
So I wanted to ask you, do you agree with that characterization in terms of the top drivers in each market?
And how do you think those will play out in fiscal 2020?
Thanks.
Kevin Johnson Yes.
Let me just frame kind of my thinking at a high level David and then I'll hand over to Roz and John to comment specifically on U.S. and China.
I do think that while we're focused on the same key things to create a great experience in our stores to drive beverage innovation that's relevant to our customers and to grow digital customer relationships the two markets are very different.
Clearly, in China this past year, we've seen a significant step forward in our digital customer relationships.
A lot of that driven with our China digital partnership with Alibaba, we introduced a spend-based rewards program in December.
We launched the ability for mobile order for pickup.
We launched Starbucks Delivers.
And in China what you see is the consumer base in China is much more digitally savvy than any other market in the world.
You just look at the percent of tender that's paid on the mobile app with Alipay or WeChat Pay.
You look at the numbers scenarios in China that are digital mobile scenarios.
And so the work that Belinda and Leo and our great China leadership team did this year in many ways was anchored around taking a big step forward in the digital flywheel.
And that's where a year ago we didn't have mobile ordering for pickup or delivery.
Now 10% of our sales mix is coming from that with seven points from Starbucks Delivers and three for mobile order for pickup.
In the U.S., I think in that particular market, we've had digital flywheel and the active rewards member growth for several years now.
And I think in the U.S. a lot of this was continuing to extend and accelerate that.
But I think more importantly, the work that's gone into creating -- elevating the customer experience in our stores and really sharpening our focus on the beverage innovation, while at the same time expanding digital customer relationships has helped.
I don't -- delivery Starbucks Delivers in the U.S. still is very small.
It's less than 1% of our sales mix.
And I think part of that is because the cost dynamics are different in China versus the U.S. And I think the Chinese consumer is much more advanced in these digital scenarios than in the U.S.
But I think we're going to continue to watch and see how that evolves in the U.S. Let me hand over to -- so I guess the net is David I think we do have two very different markets with the consumer behavior and the state of evolution of Starbucks.
And our capabilities in those markets continues to evolve in a way that's relevant to the customer mix in each of those two markets.
Roz, why don't you add the things you think are important on the U.S. side?
And then John, why don't you do the same on China?
Roz Brewer Sure.
I'll just add a few things here just to highlight that we're still seeing growth in our digital flywheel.
Just in this quarter alone our loyalty programs contributed nearly two points of comp and that's making up about 42% of our tender right now.
And typically in the fourth quarter where we usually see retraction, we actually saw active member growth of about 15% year-over-year approaching almost 18 million members.
And then the new Starbucks Rewards which we're calling Starbucks Rewards 4.0 we're seeing good performance in our 90-day active consumers.
And it's in line with our expectation.
So we're still seeing improvement in growth in our relationships and our digital platforms.
And we'll continue to see that as we get into fiscal year 2020.
John Culver Yes.
And David from a China standpoint I agree with what Kevin's comments were around the Chinese consumer and their digital capability and the savvy that they have.
Just to put that into context, you've seen in our report our reported earnings the growth of the Starbucks Rewards program.
So we up-leveled that December.
We now have crossed the 10 million Starbucks Rewards members in China.
We grew that 45% year-over-year.
And our total member base is now in China sitting at 32.5 million which is up 66% over a year ago.
So really just strong digital engagement from the customers, when you drill down a little bit deeper into MOP, we've expanded MOP at China speed.
We're now at more than 2,600 stores across 15 cities and we're continuing to expand that program.
So we've got about 65% of our store base covered.
We're seeing a very strong healthy repeat on purchases where -- which is enabling us to bring new users into the Starbucks Rewards program and penetrate that more deeply.
And then you translate that into the new channel of delivery.
We're seeing good success in delivery.
We stand out over 3,000 stores, in 100 cities.
We now cover 80% of our store base.
As we said, 7% of the sales mix, we're seeing a higher ticket, through delivery, and stronger food attach.
And we're seeing morning and lunch day part increasing, so, very optimistic about that.
And then, just don't lose sight of the need for us to continue to gain first-mover advantage on store growth.
And we're going to continue to focus on accelerating our store growth.
Clearly, the returns that we see in terms of new stores indicate, that there is a lot of opportunity in that area.
And as we continue to cultivate, the coffee consumption in China, which now sits at less than four cups per year, per person, compared to 300 in the U.S. this is a huge opportunity.
And then, just one other thing, and then, I'll stop, is the Global Coffee Alliance.
And as Kevin shared, we spent the last few days, in China.
We're here in Japan today, talking about the opportunity that the Global Coffee Alliance has for us in China.
And we've announced that in August.
We're rolling out across for platforms.
We have over 20 products that we've launched.
We walked the aisle, in Shanghai.
The Starbucks presence is absolutely stunning.
And then, foodservice is going to be a big opportunity as we focus in on office, as we focus in on universities, and as we focus in on the five-star hotels.
So we're very optimistic about China.
Operator Your next question comes from the line of John Ivankoe with JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
John Ivankoe Hi.
Thank you.
Yeah.
First, I'm actually just going to stay on the Global Coffee Alliance.
I think, what you said, there's a 7% to 8% reduction in revenue relative to some things that happened in 2019.
I was just hoping you could talk about that.
And just the comments that we're being made on accretion after buyback, just seem to be interesting that they were made at all.
Just overall from a profitability perspective as we think about that segment was fiscal 2020 in line with relative to what you originally thought?
And if not why, and then, I'll have a couple follow-ups.
Kevin Johnson Pat, why don't you take that, if you could?
Pat Grismer Certainly, so John, what I'd like to highlight is what is driving the difference between our total revenue growth guidance for fiscal 2020, and our long-term growth model.
So we've guided to a range of 6% to 8%.
Our long-term growth model is 7% to 9%.
That one percentage point difference is attributable to two things.
One is the sale of our ownership interest in Thailand in fiscal 2019, and how that extends then, with its impact into fiscal 2020.
But then the second is, and I think this is more directly to your question, what we're expecting by way of a revenue decline in Channel Development from fiscal 2019, into fiscal 2020, even though we had lapped, the onset of the Global Coffee Alliance.
There were some temporary business transition activities, in fiscal 2019.
And that are non-recurring.
And they tend to mask the growth profile of our Channel Development business for fiscal 2020.
And they relate primarily to lapping some elevated inventory sales to Nestlé in preparation for their direct fulfilment of customer orders, in addition to, what were some final sales of Tazo-branded products that fell into fiscal 2019.
So, when you normalize for these temporary transition items in Channel Development and as well as for the ownership change in Thailand, we get back to a normalized total revenue growth rate of 7% to 9%.
What I would like to highlight specifically in relation to Channel Development, given that we are guiding to an adjusted revenue growth rate of 4%, which is at the bottom end of our ongoing range of 4% to 6% is that, we would expect it to be 4% to 5% in the near-term and then 5% to 6% longer term with what we expect by way of an accelerated pace of international market expansion.
So really what you see happening is a combination of things.
Number one, it's overlapping some unusual benefits that we realized in fiscal 2019.
But it's also the fact that the international market acceleration and how that impacts the shape of our revenue growth for the Channel Development segment particularly, we see happening further out into the future.
Kevin Johnson John, you want to just comment on the international market expansion on Global Coffee Alliance, kind of what we achieved in fiscal 2019, and the outlook for fiscal 2020?
John Culver Yeah.
So we've had some great work that's happened between us and Nestlé as we rolled out this -- the Global Coffee Alliance.
Clearly, the U.S. market is the most established business.
We had a smaller business in Europe, but then the rest of the world was Greenfield as it relates to CPG and foodservice channels.
We now have products available in over 30 markets around the world.
And as Kevin highlighted, we're on our way to having 50 markets up and running, by the spring of 2020.
We've got 28 SKUs that we've launched across four different platforms.
Particularly, the work that we've done with Nespresso is paying dividends.
We're seeing very good strong growth and uptick for the Nespresso Starbucks-branded capsules.
We're also seeing very good, strong uptick with Dolce Gusto, in the Dolce Gusto platform.
So we're very optimistic about the single-serve opportunity that exists around the world, not just in the U.S. We did have a meaningful launch of creamers in the U.S. and we anticipate that -- taking that to other markets.
We launched four flavors in August and we earned about 10.4 billion impressions as we made that announcement.
So there is a lot of consumer excitement about this and a lot of market excitement.
And then we're going to continue to drive meaningful innovation within the Global Coffee Alliance.
I think at the speed at which we've been able to create the product platforms, the speed at which we've been able to bring those into the markets that is going to continue.
And that's been a big piece of the discussions that we've been having here over the last 2.5 days with the Nestlé team and we're both very optimistic about the opportunity going forward.
Pat Grismer And John there was a second part to your question in relation I believe to the EPS accretion from the Global Coffee Alliance.
So just to reaffirm, that Global Coffee Alliance became EPS accretive in fiscal 2019 which is faster than we had originally expected when we completed the transaction.
And we continue to expect -- even with that revenue decline that I mentioned we continue to expect that it will remain EPS accretive on a cumulative basis.
And that includes the beneficial impact of the share repurchases that were funded with the after-tax upfront cash payment from Nestlé.
Operator Your next question comes from the line of Sharon Zackfia with William Blair.
Please proceed with your question.
Sharon Zackfia Hi.
Good afternoon.
I actually had two questions, but one's pretty quick.
I know in the past you've talked about the digital information you have now on people who are not yet rewards members and I think you've given that number in the past.
I'm just curious if that continues to grow in the U.S?
And then secondarily on the margin outlook, I guess, I'm a little confused on the Americas particularly.
I know the margin there has stabilized.
So you had some benefit from the change in the gift card breakage.
So I'm just wondering whether or not we should expect Americas margins to stabilize or not in 2020 as well?
Kevin Johnson Thanks, Sharon.
Roz, why don't you take the first question on the digitally registered customers that Sharon asked.
And then Pat why don't you take the margin question if you could?
So Roz?
Roz Brewer Great.
Thank you.
Sol just on those digitally registered customers that we've seen in this recent quarters first of all, we've seen the redemption shifted to new tiers and that's not impacting our overall Starbucks Rewards growth.
The customers we've seen they've embraced the choices provided by these multiple redemption tiers.
The 150-Star tier continues to see the majority of the redemption volume.
And we've also seen that our low-frequency members that you've heard us referred to as our occasional customers they're driving a more significant portion of the active members.
So right now we're seeing good movement in that space.
And again our Starbucks Rewards customers we've seen acceleration there in that member growth of about 15% to roughly 18 million members.
Actually that number is 17.6 million.
The other thing I'll mention is that we continue to grow at peak in our morning peak time frame and we're seeing actually growth across all dayparts.
That occasional customer that we're introducing to Starbucks Rewards is coming in in the afternoons.
And so we probably are seeing a lift through all the dayparts.
And so that is the work that's happening by adding the new multitiers to the program.
Pat Grismer And then Sharon with respect to your question on margin, what I first want to clarify is that we are expecting modest margin improvement across each one of our segments in fiscal 2020.
Specifically on the Americas you asked about breakage and then just Americas margin generally.
So I first want to clarify what's happening with breakage.
As a reminder we adopted this new revenue recognition accounting standard starting in first quarter fiscal 2019.
And one that impact of that was to reclassify stored value card breakage from the interest in other line below operating income and outside of segment results to the revenue line at the segment level.
It's mostly a matter of P&L geography that does not have an impact on EPS.
On a full year basis, the change in accounting did have a beneficial impact to non-GAAP operating margin of about 40 basis points in fiscal 2019 and the greatest impact was in Q2 due to seasonality.
But I also want to clarify that breakage is not accounted for in comp sales.
It's just another revenue driver after new stores and comp sales.
We will lap this impact in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 at which point the benefit to our revenue and operating margin will already be embedded in our base.
So breakage will not be a driver of margin performance in fiscal 2020.
We do expect in the Americas like the other segments that there will be a modest margin expansion in fiscal 2020.
And that's a function of the sales leverage that we expect from the comp growth that we're guiding in the range of 3% to 4% as well as the significant cost savings that we're expecting, particularly in our supply chain, and that that will be sufficient to offset the investments that we're looking to make in fiscal 2020 to continue to drive the top line.
I will also say that the Americas margin will benefit in 2020 -- fiscal 2020 from the lap of the leadership conference in the fourth quarter.
So as you think about the shape of our margin performance across the year, what that means is it will probably be flattish in Q1.
We'll see that modest improvement in Q2 and Q3, and then we will see a very robust margin improvement in the fourth quarter.
Operator Your next question comes from the line of Matthew DiFrisco with Guggenheim Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Matthew DiFrisco Thank you.
I just have a follow-up a little bit there on Sharon's also.
With respect to the incremental of that 17.6 million and the 15% growth, can you dig into that and see sort of -- are you seeing a little bit of a broader demographic maybe coming on board than you had in the past?
I know there were some theories out there in the last couple of years when it did decelerate that perhaps the brand was hitting its max as a premium position brand.
I'm curious as far as just your overall value perception.
I know you maybe seeing also the tier -- the change to a tiered rewards program has it opened you up maybe to a broader demographic that maybe you're resonating better as a value and you're expanding the tent to include more people above maybe lower incomes than you had in the past?
Kevin Johnson Roz, why don't you go ahead and take that for us?
Roz Brewer Okay, great.
Thanks, Kevin.
So, what we are seeing is that we are seeing a broader array of customers that are attracted to Starbucks at the moment.
In terms of qualifying their demographic to understand if they're value or non-value, we don't have the kind of data at this point.
But I will tell you that we know that they are attracted in the -- to the beverage program, less attracted to the food program.
At this time, we are encouraged by the ticket that we're seeing with this customer and their attraction to things like Happy Hour and also to the time of day.
And so, as we learn more we'll share that with you.
But right now, we're encouraged that we are moving these customers to the Starbucks Rewards level.
And we're pleased that we did add the other layers of redemption just so that we can expand the excitement of the Starbucks brand to a broader customer.
So, we'll come back to you with more information on that, but right now we don't have the demographics on those customers.
Kevin Johnson Let me just add a comment on the strength of the Starbucks brand.
Growth at Scale has really enabled us to really sharpen our focus on those things that we believe differentiate Starbucks from all other opportunities and all other experiences.
So the focus that we've put on the customer experience in our stores, the focus we've put on beverage innovation, the focus we've put on digital customer relationships and the fact that we have executed against this with discipline has driven our customer connection scores to an all time high.
The brand is healthy and strong and growing.
And so, in many ways our Growth at Scale agenda has really enabled us to put our energy behind the things that matter most and the things candidly that differentiate us from all others in the marketplace.
And I think that is the significant reason why we're seeing transaction traffic growth, we're seeing comp growth and we're seeing momentum across all aspects of Starbucks.
And that is helping us in many ways both digitally.
But it's also more importantly really amplified by the experience that our Starbucks partners, who proudly wear the green apron create for our customers each and every day.
Operator The last question today comes from Dennis Geiger with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Dennis Geiger Great.
Thanks for the question.
Just wanted to quickly touch a bit more on some of those key drivers that you talked about in the U.S. And I guess specifically, as you kind of think about beverage, the in-store experience as well as digital looking ahead, just anything incremental you could say about that leverage pipeline.
Obviously Nitro is relatively new across the system, but about how you feel about that beverage pipeline looking ahead?
How much incremental opportunity there is on the in-store experience?
And I guess similarly, with digital, a lot of commentary there.
But just where you go from here, if you'd characterize winning and just the opportunity that'd be great?
Thank you.
Kevin Johnson That's great.
Roz, why don't you take that for us?
Roz Brewer Sure.
There's a couple reasons, why we feel confident about our future in what we've been doing with the beverage innovation, the work we've been doing with in-store experience and our digital engagement.
First of all, behind these things a lot of the work that we've done in-store is around the work that we did with the team works rollout in third quarter fiscal year '19.
And so we'll benefit a lot from that in fiscal year '20.
Then there is a significant work in progress around inventory routines and automation, the food prep test that we do backroom optimization.
And all of those items are fueling the work as Kevin mentioned around machine learning and our applications to fuel Deep Brew.
So, we feel confident about that work that's ongoing and that is already in process.
In terms of beverage innovation, because, we have been looking at not only beverage innovation, but equipment, having Mastrena there is an opportunity, having Nitro there.
We introduced Cold Foam last year.
It's allowing us to create new beverage combinations that our customers are really responding to in addition to the growth in cold.
So, if you look at our sales in detail, cold which is our Refreshers, our iced teas, our cold coffee and our Nitro Cold Brew are all doing extremely well for us.
And so that innovation will be ongoing.
And then, from the point of the digital relationships, the more we learn about our customer base, the better we had been marketing to them.
And so, you will see our marketing become more personalized and that will help with retention and driving frequency in our stores.
So, we feel like there is more to come in those three areas, so we'll continue on the pathway we those three important initiatives for us because there's still more to be done in those areas.
Operator That was our last question today.
I will now turn the call over to Kevin Johnson for closing remarks.
Kevin Johnson Thanks, Hector.
As we close today's call, I want you all to know how much we appreciate the support and the encouragement we've received from the investment community over this past year, as we've undertaken significant efforts to streamline the company sharpen our focus and drive improvements in operating performance.
This would not be possible without the 400,000 talented Starbucks partners that I have the privilege to serve each and every day.
Together, we look forward to a great year ahead and to sharing our results and our progress in future quarters.
Thank you.
Operator This concludes Starbucks Coffee Company's Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2019 Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Invesco Ltd. (NYSE:IVZ) Q3 2019 Earnings Conference Call October 23, 2019 9:00 AM ET EPS of $0.7 beats by $0.13 Revenue of $1.23B (27.08% Y/Y) beats by $4.6M  Company Participants Marty Flanagan – President and CEO Loren Starr – Chief Financial Officer Greg McGreevey – Senior Managing Director, Investments Conference Call Participants Ken Worthington – JPMorgan Mike Carrier – Bank of America Brian Bedell – Deutsche Bank Ryan Bailey – Goldman Sachs Brennan Hawken – UBS Patrick Davitt – Autonomous Research Bill Katz – Citi Dan Fannon – Jefferies Michael Cyprys – Morgan Stanley Glenn Schorr – Evercore Kenneth Lee – RBC Capital Markets Unidentified Company Representative Good morning, and thank you all for joining us.
As a reminder, this conference call and the related presentation may include forward-looking statements, which reflect management's expectation about future events and overall operating plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements are made as of today and are not guaranteed.
They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from our expectations.
For a discussion of these risks and uncertainties, please see the risks described in our most recent Form 10-K and subsequent filings with the SEC.
Invesco makes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
We may also discuss non-GAAP financial measures during today's call.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures may be found at the end of our earnings presentation.
Operator Welcome to Invesco's Third Quarter Results Conference Call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Now I would like to turn the call over to your speakers for today, Marty Flanagan, President and CEO of Invesco; Loren Starr, Chief Financial Officer; and Greg McGreevey, Senior Managing Director, Investments.
Mr. Flanagan, you may begin.
Marty Flanagan Thank you very much, and thank you, everybody, for joining us.
The Q3 presentation is available on the website for your reference.
But to allow more time for Q&A, we're going to shorten our prepared remarks and really get the questions quite quickly.
So I'll just give a brief overview of the results and Loren make a couple of comments, and again, we'll get the questions, so we’ll have more time to have a discussion.
So now only four months post the close of the acquisition of Oppenheimer made tremendous progress, bringing the two organizations together, and you can see by this quarter it's generating meaningful results already.
As we've discussed on previous calls, we do look at this as a multiyear growth story that people's relationships in the U.S. provides this capabilities to take around the world, while also creative skills for organization.
That said, the first full quarter of the combined organization has delivered powerful results.
If you look at very strong earnings quarter-over-quarter generating $502 million operating income at 38% improvements as compared to last quarter.
Operating margin expansion exceeding 500 basis points, taking our margin up to 40.9%.
The combined firm added $200 million net revenues during the quarter, while adding only less than $60 million in expenses.
And we're particularly pleased to announce that we're bringing on our expense synergies well ahead of schedule and exceeding our initial target of $475 million.
We are now estimating savings of $501 million.
Importantly, we achieved these results and what was a very challenging macroenvironmental flows and also been the early days this combination between our two organizations.
During the quarter, clients reacted to the market news by keep risking, which resulted in outflows in our Americas and UK retail businesses.
Flows in our legacy or byproducts low during the quarter, which we had expected, but they are stabilizing.
We will speak about that in a couple of minutes.
These outflows were offset by positive flows in China, EMEA, ex-U.K. business and ETFs.
So the positive flows during the quarter really demonstrate the tremendous strength and potential to combination.
Furthermore, the operating and financial strength of the combined firm enable us to return $440 million to common shareholders during the quarter through dividends and stock buybacks.
So finally, it is still very early days, but from our perspective, the initial results are very strong.
Loren?
Loren Starr Great.
Thanks, Marty.
So before we get to Q&A, I wanted to spend a few moments highlighting some key items for you on the topics of flows and expense synergies, resulting from the Oppenheimer transaction.
So if you look to Page 5 or Slide 5, we had $10.5 billion of net outflows in the Americas, majority of this is attributable to the retail business.
On the next page, we drilled down on this a little more.
So on Slide 6, we show that 2019 history of monthly gross sales and net flows for the Invesco and Oppenheimer U.S. active, retail products combined, which includes periods of both pre and post-close.
It has had another way, this illustrates the trend for the two firms together over the entire period, including the pre-acquisition period.
I think there are few important takeaways from this chart.
First, gross sales post-close are increasing, we see a positive trend line.
However, while gross sales are improving, they’re not yet to the pre-deal level.
So there is obviously more room for improvement.
Second, the chart clearly highlights that the deal has had an impact on our gross sales levels.
Integration of two sales team are well underway, and in fact, going quite well, but they’re not yet complete.
And as the integration is completed, we would expect the gross sales levels to come back to at least the pre-acquisition levels.
And, third point, net outflows have been more elevated post-close.
But this is largely a function of the abnormally low gross sales level I just mentioned.
And we’d expect net flows to improve as we complete all phases of the sales integration work through this year and into 2020.
While staying on the topic of flows but moving away from U.S. retail, I’d like to point out that we continue to see a strong institutional pipeline.
The institutional won but not funded AUM continues to build quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year.
And in particular notes, we were notified this quarter of $10 billion mandate, won by our solutions team, which is expected to fund in the first half of 2020.
Also, we received notification of a recent $100 million when into the newly launched OFI emerging markets local debt fund on our cross-border fund range in EMEA.
It’s still very early days, but we’re beginning to see revenue synergies from the deal.
There is strong retail and institutional interest in the OFI products and the pipeline is warming.
The next – let me move to the topic of expense synergies.
If you’ll recall, we have been projecting to achieve run rate net expense synergies of $475 million by the end of the first quarter of 2021.
At the end of the third quarter, we achieved 105% of our synergy target or $501 million of run rate expense reductions for the combined organizations.
This represents an elimination of 15% to the expense base of the pre-combined organizations.
We already saw that the opportunity to stay more than $475 million by the time of the transaction closing, we only had a clear line of sight, regarding the $475 million in savings.
After we closed the deal, we were able to look deeper into the business and we started making significant progress on the integration.
And we now see that we can run the business with this slower expense base.
There is still further integration work to be completed, but we’re confident that we can deliver the higher level of expense synergy that we’re presenting to you today.
And as a reminder, the synergy level is net of investments made in areas that further strengthen our distribution and investment capabilities and processes and which allow us to drive future growth and avoid future cost.
We presented on Slide 9 of our deck summarizing these expense synergies, this illustrates the combined firms’ representative run rate, annual operating expense base.
But please do keep in mind that this assumes FX and market conditions are in line roughly with the end of Q3 levels.
So in summary, before we go to Q&A, let met just say that we see the potential for the long-term net flows to trend in the right direction, although that clearly not where we want them to be right now.
One of the key areas of outflows we’re experiencing is centered in U.S. retail space and that is largely due to the shortfall and gross sales that we expect will ultimately be corrected.
And as the U.S. retail sales teams complete their integration.
We continue to work hard managing the things within our control, improving gross sales, funding greater expense savings and adding to our deal-related expense and revenue synergies, and continuing to invest in areas that we believe will allow us to grow more quickly in the future.
And with that, operator, I’d ask you to please open up the call for Q&A.
Question-and-Answer Session Operator Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We do have our first question from Ken Worthington with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Ken Worthington Hi, good morning.
Marty Flanagan Good morning.
Ken Worthington Can you first talk about the journey back to positive long-term net sales?
So a positive net long-term sales, something you foresee for Invesco in 2020?
And if not, 2020, when?
And then, can you maybe describe the path to positive sales, which new or existing products or asset classes do you see driving the incrementally better sales or incrementally lower outflows that we’re seeing today, the more specifically, you could be the better?
And then why?
Marty Flanagan Good question, Ken.
Let me hit a couple of those and I’ll ask Loren and Greg to pitch in, too.
So let's say on the what Loren was pointed out about the deal because I think it's actually quite critical.
The – to put sales force point in clarity as we've said in the past, literally the sales force now represents half of old Invesco, old OFI.
They're literally going through training right now.
We actually as you always do have disruption when you do transfer agency conversions in the like, they'll probably be up and running, I'd say fully into December, so I think early next year.
And the quality of the team is the best we've ever had.
So we've viewed that the historical gross sales.
We will exceed those that will be, so when does that happen into next year, that will surely happen, ideally on the first half of next year from our perspective.
Again, I'd put it in the context of Loren date of the – it all depends on the market, but with this market continues, that's what we foresee.
Loren Starr Yes.
I think in terms of the path to positive, so we're clearly saying we're going to become look like that's where really we're saying because of the sales improving.
I think the path to positive is going to be a function of some other things that are – some within our control and some without of our control.
So one thing that is still very much weighing on our flow picture for the firm globally is sort of just the macro environment and some of the political uncertainty that exists, where we see risk off, it's affecting everybody.
And so in Europe for example, that risk off behaviors drove driven flows into cash and in a way from active products.
And that's something that we can control, but we're definitely looking to see hopefully some of these events becoming more clear, Brexit being the most obvious one.
The other element that I think is moving in a positive direction and is an important precursor to flows is performance.
And we've had some headwinds around performance that we're beginning to see sort of a turnaround and particularly in sort of recent months where you can see just how strong the comeback or the pullback in performances when we see some release on some of these macro topics for example, what we're seeing in terms of what's going on in Europe and the UK has a big impact on our UK business.
I think Greg, I mean, you can speak to that a little bit if you want.
Greg McGreevey Yes.
Maybe can just to get a little granular to the essence of your question.
So it's that intersection between demand and performance.
Maybe point to kind of four or five areas to get to the specific question that you asked on.
One would be fixed income, where as you know, we have very strong performance.
We're seeing quite strong demand in almost all markets.
Part of the transaction that we talked about before with Oppenheimer was to really leverage their global equity capability, which is incredibly strong.
There's quite strong demand for global equities and its various flavors in a lot of markets outside of the U.S. And so we're seeing that, I think ETFs and the traction that Loren kind of mentioned with this when we're going to hopefully see in the first quarter and when it farms in solutions.
We're seeing that traction really take shape in almost kind of all markets, if you will.
And then global liquidity, that was kind of mentioned as one of those areas, not only in China that we talked about on prior calls, but we're just kind of seeing that in other markets.
So that's really for I think the gross sales side and where that demand and performance, where we have that strong performance kind of intersects.
Clearly, we're seeing some – on the redemption side, some important performance improvements in a number of those funds that have had the most significant amount of outflows.
I'm happy to drill into those numbers, but I think on a year-to-date basis, which is still short-term for most of our funds, both here with the legacy Oppenheimer, we're seeing some notable improvement that has to continue.
But if we see that in concert with those things that I talked about, that's really how I think we get to the positive flow picture.
Ken Worthington Okay, thank you.
And then on the synergies, can you talk about the outlook from here both synergies and dis-synergies?
So maybe starting with dis-synergies, I believe there's still a 529 plan outflow.
I think that's a fourth quarter event.
Correct me if I'm wrong.
Any other deal related dis-synergies that we should expect in the near-term.
And then on the cost side, you took out $501 million.
Is that the end number we should expect?
In other words, if you get more, do you are reinvested?
Are you going to reinvest some of the $501 million?
And if not, any idea on how much more we'll be able – shareholders will be able to keep that wouldn't be reinvested.
Loren Starr So Ken, on the first point that the synergies, you're correct, there's the $2 billion New Mexico outflow that is to be expected in the fourth quarter.
That has been dis-synergy.
The only other dis-synergies are the ones we just talked about in terms of the gross sales being abnormally low, some of the kind of a general disruption related to GA conversions.
I mean those have been dis-synergies to the flow picture that should end.
We're seeing begin to improve overtime, but there isn't anything else that we know of in terms of dis-synergy, and if anything, again, we're seeing more positive revenue synergies that take on potential for the products in the C Caps in Europe for example is a good real live flow coming in.
In terms of the $501 million, that number is net of investments.
So that is the number that we are saying you're going to get.
There is no intention for us to invest through that number.
So that's the bottom line.
There are more opportunities for us to sort of generate more synergies.
We believe some of that may get invested, some may drop to the bottom line.
We're at this point comfortable with the $501 million.
And we will continue to keep you updated in terms of the potential upside on that number.
Ken Worthington Thank you very much.
Marty Flanagan You're welcome.
Operator Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mike Carrier with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Mike Carrier Good morning, and thanks for taking the questions.
First one just on the sales and the flows, I think Marty, you mentioned over the past, probably one to two years, there's been some negative impacts the business, whether it was Brexit and some of the European headwinds and then on the value side versus growth, that being the headwind.
It seems like some of those things are at least starting to potentially like shift gear.
But just wondering if you're seeing any early signs some like improvement on that front.
Marty Flanagan Yes.
So look what we think are fundamental strengths of our organization.
So I think EMEA, I think Asia-Pac, Brexit and trade wars, they have just tremendous headwinds for us and against, so posting results in light of that, it's not an excuse, it's just a reality.
We are sensing with Brexit in particular, certainly end game coming here – like to starting to see just recently the performance is starting to pick up very strongly, which is a very good sign.
And so again they say hope is not a strategy, but you definitely are sensing some relief here.
And look, we have Sterling being at, what is it 120, 129 is a whole lot different than 119.
So again some of these – be able to continue to manage through it, but any relief is just really powerful.
They get on a few anything in the performance.
Greg McGreevey Yes.
My quick, I think the rotation is starting to happen from a growth to value.
The market's starting to recognize, but not all companies are the same.
Some make better capital allocation and are able to produce different returns on investment.
So we're starting to see probably the most impactful thing is a lower correlation of stocks to the index.
And that really gives our active managers, the ability to use their strong stock picking skills.
And so I think that's part of the reason when we kind of look at our year-to-date performance improvement, it's really the result of some of those factors that has kind of allowed our performance to improve the $64,000 question is always, is that going to continue?
The one thing we know is, it's not going to continue forever in terms of what we've seen over the course of the last 10 years.
So it gives us some comfort that when this does change, given the strong teams that we have, we'll be able to generate the performance that you've come to expect.
Mike Carrier Okay, thanks.
And then Loren, maybe just on the fee rate, so you got to bump this quarter with Oppenheimer, the trend over the past couple of years has been a little bit more on the negative side.
You've just given the expansion on the ETF front and then the industry is seeing some pricing pressures.
There's some news on FMAs that that's coming under pressure as well on some platforms.
But just when you look at some of the investments that you guys are making and now with Oppenheimer, on the platform, I know it's tough to predict, but do you see some areas that yes, like higher fee, like momentum or trends versus some of the areas that are going to pressure that fee rate overtime.
Is any update on how you're thinking about that and then managing expenses with that mind?
Loren Starr So it's a very dynamic, there are a lot of puts and takes in the fee rate.
There are some definitely some positive things in our fee rate.
In terms of we've talked about in the past with our institutional pipeline, where the assets that are funding are in a higher fee rates in the assets declining.
We continue to build out I think a strong set of capabilities around alternatives, which tend to have a higher fee rates and aren't going to be sort of pressured by indexing.
We are also very supportive and like our ETF business and we want to continue to grow it.
And so those are coming in at lower fee rates and that is a good thing for us.
They are great margin products as long as you can grow them quickly and sort of great scale and those products, we embrace that phenomenon and want to grow that part of the book.
I think it is very hard to provide guidance on this measure just in general.
And really there's just so much that's outside of our control in terms of the mix of products not to mention currency in markets.
So we're probably not in a great position or we're probably more likely to refrain on providing guidance on fee rate going forward just because it is so dynamic.
But I would say it's a real even fight in terms of the things that are sort of helping us on the fee rate on the positive side versus things that may be putting it to the flip side.
Mike Carrier Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Loren Starr Yes.
Operator Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brian Bedell with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Brian Bedell Great, thanks.
Good morning, folks.
Maybe if I'm wondering if you could just go into just the integration process and you realize obviously you've hit the $500 million of cost, but like you said there's definitely so more work to do.
It's still pretty early.
Maybe just can you outline what types of things are being done over the next couple quarters?
For example, the any kind of back office arrangement on custody fund accounting in mid-office if that's in process for the combined organization, in any thoughts on how much product rationalization has contributed to the $500 million and in any future rationalization that might be planned from that?
Marty Flanagan Let me hit a couple of things and then Loren and Greg can pitch in.
So yes, so all the systems have converted over to our systems from Oppenheimer.
So that's a good development.
We still have with the transfer agency, one more software upgrade that will happen at the end of November, all the middle and back office will end up converting through next year again.
So still I think first quarter 2021, as we said.
So that's in progress too.
And those are the areas where we'll know more when we get in – further into it, but that's all underway right now.
Loren Starr Yes.
I think listen, it's the fund mergers and those types of product rationalizations have not happened yet.
So that's not part of inherently the $501 million.
There may be some sort of incremental savings associated that there's probably some incremental investments as well, that we're hoping to do.
So I'd say really it is – the $501 million is a number that we feel extremely confident that we'll be able to deliver through a variety, they are right now.
We are going to continue to look at some of the other integration opportunities really around tech, run operations as well.
Some – there's all sorts of efficiencies that we can still continue to create in our sales efforts, as well as our investment efforts.
So I can't get too specific at this point, but ultimately, we're still looking at the wide range of opportunities around this integration as we get closer to the business.
Marty Flanagan I do want to come back to the product rationalization, think of, it's a small thing, not a big thing.
And I think I've spent some overreaction to it in the past.
So it's a small thing, not a big thing, just remember that.
Greg McGreevey Yes.
Maybe just to put a finer point on that, Marty, I mean, I think when you look at the impacted assets, we think it's around 2% of our total assets, roughly 14 legacy, Invesco maybe 15 OppenheimerFunds.
So we're not in the grand scheme of our whole product mix.
It's really a both small percentage of funds, and if even smaller percentage of assets.
Brian Bedell That color is really helpful.
Is it clear to think that operating margin obviously is going up from the 40% that we're already seeing, because there's sounds like there'll be incremental savings of course, revenue dependent.
But maybe just also talk about the growth sale initiatives and the potential to improve that from even levels before the deal, to what extent can you do that through the institutional offering of the Oppenheimer products in the potential sale of Oppenheimer retail in Europe.
And I guess any color for $10 billion mandate on the solutions team in terms of what disciplines that's coming in?
Marty Flanagan Yes, so look, I could be repeating myself, but there's nothing we are full steam ahead on driving gross sales right now.
And I said previously, if you look at the most acute area where there was disruption, it was a U.S. wealth management platform.
We think January 1st, we'll be on our front feet and full steam ahead and we anticipate seeing higher gross sales on the back of that.
Greg mentioned, we do now have alarming here.
We do now have six OppenheimerFunds on the C Cap range to set road shows in Europe for two weeks ago, so early days.
But as Loren said, I think we saw already $100 million, it's not going to change our world, but that's very, very fast and it's going to continue.
So what we're seeing institutionally is, I talked about lot going on a fixed income, lot going on a real estate.
So that really the also part of the business continues to be in high demand institutionally and to looking for some opportunities in the retail channel.
So we're very excited about what's in front of us.
Loren Starr Yes.
And I think we also haven't yet fully sort of explored the full opportunity with MassMutual and there the revenue synergies working with their advisors.
Again as we've talked in the past they have 8,500 advisors.
They're the seventh largest distribution for us in wealth management space.
And so we are now actively working with MassMutual with our products and our solutions that we trying to understand what is a good fit within their network.
That has yet to sort of get plugged in.
So that we'll provide some further lift that was not there pre-deal for any of the combined firms just as an example.
Marty Flanagan And again, we've not talked about as we really like our position in China and we just see that rapidly growing in the quarters and years ahead.
Greg McGreevey Yes.
And I think this relates to Oppenheimer, maybe you can just put a finer point on, one of the biggest opportunities we see is to promote the legacy OppenheimerFunds into both retail and institutional channels.
We've been spending a lot of time post the merger between investments marketing and distribution.
Those would be things like our global equity suite, things on the global fixed income side, muni bonds to mention kind of three very specific areas.
And so we're optimistic, it's still kind of early days, but we really come together across those three areas to see again and that intersection between demand and where we have investment capabilities, so where we're going to be able to get out to prospects and clients.
Loren Starr And Brian just on the color on the $10 billion solutions when it's not a appropriate for us to talk about, it’s just the client has not sort of released their own notification of that.
So when it comes public, we'll be able to talk a little bit more about that deal.
Brian Bedell Okay, fair enough.
Thanks for all the details.
That’s very helpful.
Operator Thank you.
Our next question comes from Alex Blostein with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Ryan Bailey Good morning.
This is actually Ryan Bailey on behalf of Alex.
I was wondering going back to Slide 9, if we're looking at that $2.9 billion number.
Is that the right run rate, I guess as we should be thinking about the expense base entering 2020?
And then are there any puts and takes in that number?
And then maybe coming back to the $501 million, that's a net synergy number.
Can you give us a little bit of color around like maybe how much investments would be included in the gross number, and then where those investments are going?
Greg McGreevey Yes.
So on the $2.905 billion that is the right run rate for you to be assuming going into through 2020.
We feel confident, again, assuming kind of markets flat to September and effects that that number is definitely achievable, if not – if one that we can do better on.
In terms of their $501 million that is a net number, there is about $30 million of investment that is already been done relative to the Oppenheimer transaction.
So you can think about our gross number being closer to $531 million.
And so the $501 million, and those have been areas that where we invested around technology, sort of their sales team effectiveness, really again trying to create a better platform for WMI business to be successful.
We do think there's opportunity for us to invest more and we do plan to invest more to continue to grow and make our team more effective.
That will be some – will be entirely funded by further sort of integration or savings.
But with that said, there is opportunity for us to deliver more net synergies to the bottom line beyond the $501 million.
We believe, but we're not at the point where we're able to commit to that.
Ryan Bailey Got it, okay.
And then maybe if we turn to capital for a second, so you've done two forwards over the last two quarters.
It's about $500 million, it sounds like you're – you have to pay out between sort of 1Q and 2Q 2021.
Do you expect to do any more of these over the next call or year or so?
And then is there any shift in capital priorities overall?
Greg McGreevey Good question.
The answer is no.
We don't intend to do any more forwards at this stage.
We think that we will still be doing buybacks, but there's only $260 million left on the remainders stub of what our commitment is.
And that's one that a commitment that we think we can complete over through open market purchases easily and effectively without using foreign purchases.
So that is going to be done, probably through the course of 2020.
The – in terms of changes to capital priority, there are no changes to the capitol priority.
We continue to focus on first returning capital to organic needs, through seed is not seeing significant needs around seed above and beyond expectations.
So we think that is largely sort of status quo.
We want to continue to be able to grow our dividends every year under our markets.
And so that's still part of our priority.
And then the remainder of capital will be returned to shareholders through buybacks.
So that priority is still exists.
I will say that we still is very important to us to maintain our investment credit rating and we also want to continue to build cash.
So we have $1 billion of cash in excess of what is required from a regulatory perspective.
All that is consistent with our past priorities and all are still intact in terms of our thinking.
Ryan Bailey Got it.
Thank you very much.
Greg McGreevey You're welcome.
Operator Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Your line is open.
Brennan Hawken Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
Just wanted to follow-up on that last one on the expense comment on the $2.905 billion.
Loren, I just wanted to kind of clarify, because previously you guys had walked through the synergy, the expense synergy quarter by quarter, and you've upsized the ultimate target.
So $475 million goes to $501 million that's really clear.
It clear that your end run rate for expenses would be the $2.905 billion.
But I thought in your response to the prior question, you said that that the $2.905 billion would be the run rate entering in 2020, but I'd thought previously you had said the expense synergies you get there by the time you exit 1Q 2021.
Is that – is the previous timeline still intact or you accelerating the timeline too?
Marty Flanagan We are accelerating the timeline.
So we're delivering the full synergies, 105% of the synergies effective this quarter, so pretty much all that kind of wait for it to come has gone.
We can declare victory effectively in terms of bringing you that run rate effective this quarter.
I think the point that we're trying to make, or I've been making that there's still integration work happening in the background, but we are getting the synergies and those savings effective this quarter into Q4 into – first quarter 2020 so far.
So that that is hopefully it helps answer your question.
Brennan Hawken It does.
It's very clear.
Thank you.
Sorry if that's a – if it was redundant and previously indicated, I just wanted to clarify.
Marty Flanagan No need to worry.
Brennan Hawken Yes, agreed.
Good and helpful.
So there was previously referenced the announcement we got recently from Wirehouse expected to launch a program optional for participating asset managers on SMA products.
Is this a sort of product that you think would be compelling?
I know that a lot of times on the shelf having a – you got to have a good product, it's got to be the performance has to be strong, the value add has to be clear, but it also has to be at a compelling value, a compelling fee rate, especially versus the peers.
So is this the sort of program while not – maybe not commenting specific to any program, because I know you wouldn't want to do that until then front run.
But is this a sort of program that you think would be compelling?
Is this a sort of program that you think you would participate in?
And do you think it would help accelerate your sales in that important broker sold channel for you?
Thanks.
Loren Starr Yes.
So Brennan I think just to put some context in terms of the SMA business generally, we're currently ranked 36 in the industry.
So it's not a big part of our business.
We have sort of under $10 billion in overall SMA business.
I think related to that particular platform that you're talking about our exposures probably less than $0.5 billion.
So it’s not a big deal for us, just in general.
We did see it.
It is little too early for us to say just how interesting and attractive, it might be for us.
There is definitely some potential upside but also some things that we have to get an understanding before we said it would be interesting for us to participate.
And… Marty Flanagan Yes.
And I just add, just listening to our conversation today, we just have so many opportunities in different channels to work in, within the United States retail institutional globally and our focus continues to be there.
And that’s where we see the excitement and really what’s going to be the force behind, you can see the growth of the organization.
So, again, we have plenty to work with what’s on our plate right now.
Brennan Hawken All right, fair enough.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Marty Flanagan Thank you.
Operator Thank you.
Our next question comes from Patrick Davitt with Autonomous Research.
Your line is open.
Patrick Davitt Hey, good morning guys.
Thank you.
Another one on the $2.9 billion run rate, understanding that’s kind of a baseline for 2020.
Should we’d still assume – to the extent, we assume asset inflation in our models, some upside to that with kind of normal increase in expenses related to asset build.
Or is that really kind of what you think it will be and can go lower from there?
Loren Starr Yes.
So I think we made a caveat, which is that’s based on sort of assets based on September AUM, as we saw a huge market up tick, there’s definitely some amount of variability in our incentive plans that would scale up, which is what we – you’d expect.
Similarly, as we saw a down market, we would also sort of see that flex down.
So there’s normal kind of variability that would happen around incentive plans.
But, ultimately, there is no – you should not expect to any sort of hidden inflation numbers into 2020 on this number at all.
This number, we’re feeling is comfortable based on the current AUM levels.
Patrick Davitt Okay, great.
That’s helpful, thanks.
And then when you announced the deal, you kind of announced an expectation of, I think 2 basis points of revenue yield deterioration from breakage.
Is that related to the rationalization process?
So we should still expect that when you do rationalize or is that something separate?
Loren Starr That is something that would include the potential for breakage with those rationalizations.
And again, that was $45 million.
We don’t think it’s going to be anywhere near that amount, as I think it was already discussed.
It’s a small number of amounts of products or assets in general.
So I think as I’ mentioned in the past, that $45 million could be an upside to the overall modeling and the fee rate deterioration that we’ve provided in terms of deal economics.
Operator Does that conclude your question, Patrick?
Patrick Davitt Yes, thank you.
Operator Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bill Katz with Citi.
Your line is open.
Bill Katz Okay.
Thank you very much for taking the questions.
Fortunate, I do want to spend on more time on this $2.9 billion, because I’m still actually a little confused by it, so I apologize, but my denseness.
So is there enough synergies go forward from here that could offset the inflation to the extent that flows worth to build against the path that you think that could play through.
And just assuming a “normalized” market with so called $0.07 for equities?
I’m just trying to sort of see, how that $2.9 my trend as the business gets a little bit better.
Loren Starr We haven’t done the sensitivity.
I mean, I think if you look at how the firm has – it’s a bonus pools, it’s really the largest component of it.
And it’s a percentage of PCBOI.
It’s in the proxy.
It’s kind of, that’s how we operate.
It’s the same concept that’s going to come into a sec going forward.
So if we see flows really driving, higher levels of AUM, which we’d love to see or if the market improves from here, you’re going to see sort of just a normal type of flex around those types of bonus pools.
So again, I would point you to kind of our past experience, the same kind of set of ratios that you’ve seen in the past in terms of how complexes with revenues and assets.
Marty Flanagan Bill, I think the point out, profitability will improve if that’s really the underlying question and you would get a margin expansion in that scenario that you’re talking about it.
That’s the fundamental question.
Loren Starr Yes.
The incremental margin is still at the high level of 50% to 65%, as assets and revenues grow.
Bill Katz Okay, that is very helpful.
Just two more questions and just [indiscernible] On the institutional channel, I certainly appreciate the notion that your pipeline is getting better and the fee rate underneath that is better than what’s going out the door.
But when I look at just over the slide that continues to sort of point to flattish flow Page 5 – flattish flows overall.
At what point does some of that very strong pipeline feed into maybe a more positive growth?
Or maybe another way to think about is where you losing traction, where you’re gaining traction?
Loren Starr I think, in terms of pipeline as we send, we’re gaining traction in some of the places that were quite successful in China, Greater China.
So geographically that’s been really a strong area for growth across all sorts of asset classes in Chinese equities fixed income.
I think it has a lot of upside for us as we continue to see success and further penetration in that market.
We do think that Europe is got a lot of opportunity, particularly as we build out the solutions capabilities and we are meeting the needs around fixed income and general use of factors and other capabilities that have been part of our growth engine story for some time.
So those are upsides.
Real estate continues to be a major driver of opportunity for the firm overall.
I think in terms downside, there isn’t a ton of downsides.
We don’t see sort of big likely to terminates or sort of big ugly story on the downside for institutional.
The reason that as it kind of turned negative here, it’s been largely because of the volatile market that we’ve been in and some of the fundings have slowed just because of the uncertainty, work that we’re doing in Europe and UK have definitely slowed to some extent just because of the – sort of the risk off a behavior that we’re seeing is people want to understand what direction – things are going in.
And so we do believe that, I mean, those numbers are going to fund.
It’s just a matter of timing.
Bill Katz Thank you.
Just one last clarification I probably did, I think you covered before on that $10 billion mandate that you expect to find in the first half of the year.
Is there a way to think about the fee rate associated with that?
I apologize, if you already covered that.
Loren Starr Yes.
Again, just because it hasn’t been disclosed publicly, we’re not going to talk about it, because it really will be transparent to the client and if and when they disclose it.
So we just think it’s appropriate for us to be talking about fee rates for clients.
Bill Katz Okay.
Thank you.
Operator Thank you.
Our next question comes from Dan Fannon with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Dan Fannon Thanks.
My question is around the UK, obviously, Brexit has been an overhang, but also there’s been the scrutiny of Woodford and the asset management industry as a whole.
Could you talk about, kind of perpetual, because they’re being brought into same in the same discussions around the platforms and how these funds are being sold and you obviously your performance there has been hit?
And so I guess just in general, can you talk about the outlook for perpetual, what any ramifications you may or may not expect from some of the platforms and how funds were sold and how your business practice might differ from the way it’s been written about in the price for other funds?
Marty Flanagan Look, it’s a good question.
And you obviously it’s very topical in the UK, yes, I can’t speak for win, but what I will say, one of the most fundamental things that we did, strategically was purchasing Intelliflo.
And that’s early days, but that is really a very powerful platform that we think is going to make quite a difference for us in that marketplace.
And you should realize, if 35% market share, we’ve just please the model portfolios, it’s early.
Clients are starting to go on the platform.
It’s going to start picking up next year.
And I think that was a very important strategic decision that we made.
And with regard to investment performance, again, these markets more recently have been very, very positive for us and in those teams.
And the combination thereof I think puts us in a good place.
And this is how, speaking at a retail level, I think as what you’re addressing.
Institutionally, we continue to be very, very strong in the market and growing.
Greg, I don’t know, if you want add anything.
Greg McGreevey Look, I think just highlight the year-to-date improvement that we’ve seen in our Henley business overall, especially on the equity side with a number of our assets, especially those that have had the most significant size in the top half of peers improving pretty dramatically from 2018 and 2017.
So don’t want to get too far ahead of the fact that it’s relatively short term performance.
But September was an especially strong month for performance within the Henley equity side and so we're travelling definitely in the right direction if you will.
And we've seen significant improvement also within the Henley fixed income side.
So the one thing I think on that business because is kind of gets to outflows and what we may see there, I think that group historically, like a lot of our other equity teams has an incredibly strong culture, skill and capabilities.
And I think that team historically has produced incredibly strong performance.
It's really been the recent market environment in the short run has kind of impacted our performance notwithstanding with the positive things that have happened on year-to-date basis.
So, I'm highly confident that we'll be able to given those skills to return back to what we would expect that group and what they historically have produced in terms of performance.
And Marty?
Marty Flanagan Yes.
The Brexit coming into the market environment has been a tremendous headwind for us, but that's a high degree of confidence in our investment teams.
And at some point it will not be a risk off world and we anticipate, we are participating very strongly in it.
Dan Fannon I guess to clarify on the performance, I'm looking at Slide 14 and I look at the UK on the one, three and five year numbers.
And so what improvement are you citing I guess or is it somewhere else that I could see that?
Loren Starr Yes, so this is at the end of – so this is – looking at it on a one year basis, I was giving you a year-to-date numbers.
So the four quarter of last year as I think you know is an especially troubling year for kind of all equity performance.
And so that really impacted when you looked at the one year performance at the end of September of 2019 those numbers, if you look at it on a year-to-date basis you would definitely see improvement.
And then I was referencing specifically the September number where we had roughly about 90% of all of our assets within the Henley group in the top half of our peer groups.
So again, it's relatively short-term, but we're starting to see that trend in the right direction for the same reasons that we talked about earlier.
Well, hopefully did that clarify?
Dan Fannon Yes, yes it does.
And then just a follow-up on Asia, outside of money markets, I guess what products are selling in that region?
And I just kind of what – I guess or what are you or where you see potential other kind of avenues of growth in that region?
Marty Flanagan Yes.
So through Invesco Great Wall its very broad, equity products are very, very strong, highly performing they are recognized as one of the top tier local money managers there.
Institutionally, in China it's very broad, heavy real estate fixed income [indiscernible] market to add, so very broad and very deep in that area.
Dan Fannon Okay.
Thank you.
Marty Flanagan Yes.
Operator Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Cyprys with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Michael Cyprys Hey, good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
Just hoping to dig in a little bit more on the institutional channel, it's good to hear that the pipeline is up and improving here.
Just hoping you could talk a little bit about some of the investments that you've been making in the institutional business, particularly around data, technology and also the ability to customize.
And I guess the question is how is your approach different today versus say two years ago and what might be most different as you look out over the next two to three years?
Marty Flanagan Yes.
Look it's a great question and let me hit on a couple of points and I'll have Greg pitch into.
I think we and all our competitors would tell you it's a great opportunity.
The other reality is the demands on clients have never been – from clients has never been stronger.
And so this depth and breadth of investment capabilities has mattered, but right behind it exactly what you're talking about investments in technology around analytics, insights, has been very material.
And if we look at this beyond its a necessity as you're going to compete and win with institutions, thought leadership is an another area that becomes very, very important in these conversations because what we're seeing with appliances, they're wanting to work with us very deeply and very broadly and so its effectively opening up the organization to whatever set of capabilities that we have and so it's been material and it's been real.
Greg, what would you think?
Greg McGreevey Yes I think, the big three areas that we've invested in are capabilities on the solutions front, the client experience, which would be both technology and systems as well as thought leadership where we've added with very strong content from our investment teams, the ability both in marketing and within that group to be able to provide that content into the marketplace.
On the solutions front, it's been one of the largest investments I think we've made as an organization.
And the ability to partner with clients to help them create outcomes that they really desire is where the market is moving to.
And it gives us, I think, an ability because of the individual resources and expertise that we've added to really have the conversations that we need to, and provide those outcomes that I think are so – the clients are looking for.
Part of the reason that we were able to talk about that client on the institutional side and a lot of the other pipeline is really the result of that investment that we made a number of years ago in solutions.
We wouldn't have been able to obtain that client, when we talked about that was $10 billion without the investment that we made.
And we're seeing a lot of momentum with other clients as a result of those three areas that I kind of talked about and Marty talked about within the institutional side.
And we think that's only going to be a trend that will continue.
So we're excited about that.
Michael Cyprys Great.
And just a quick follow-up, is there any way to sort of quantify, I guess, how much investment spend is currently in the expense run rate and how we should think about that, if anything kind of peeling back over the next couple of years or if that get recycled into other investments?
How should we be thinking about it?
Marty Flanagan So, we have an enormous amount of investments in our run rate.
I think we've – it’s well in excess of sort of $100 million of investments just generally around the firm across a variety of growth engine areas that we've talked about in the past around China, around solutions, around factor-based investing.
So that is – in our run rate, we expect to continue to build that number over time, but offset that with further savings as we talked about through synergies and just general, sort of prudent expense management and discipline.
Loren Starr And I think the key thing for where we're at within solutions, which is kind of a broad area, we feel quite confident that the majority of the investments that we've made within solutions has already been made.
Although the other things that we might need to do on the distribution side and in another areas to kind of support that, but, we really feel like we've made the significant amount of headway into the individuals that we've need to hire there.
Greg McGreevey And really – again, just to put some, how do we see it and what have we done?
Our solutions team uses our capabilities, right?
I think that's quite different than what a number of our competitors do.
So literally, sort of sits on top of – looking through all the investment capabilities that we have and it's really hand in hand with the clients.
And what we're seeing clients do where if you go back two and three and four years, it was more of what product does a client want and what do we have doesn't match off much more.
It's becoming a much more holistic engagement with our clients.
Now it might be a capability or second capability, but it's really that insights and analytics that is really just changing the dynamic with the client for any institutional money manager to be successful in our view.
Michael Cyprys Great.
Thank you.
Operator Thank you.
Our next question comes from Glenn Schorr with Evercore.
Your line is open.
Glenn Schorr Thank you.
I want to drill down a little bit more on the MassMutual potential.
You mentioned the 8,500 advisors, you also in the past talked about the general account.
The advisors are not the same type of businesses as the retail broker dealers, the wire houses.
So can you talk about what you expect to be selling into that channel?
What do they typically consume and how quickly that can be?
And then anything you could add on the general account, that'd be great?
Greg McGreevey So look with MassMutual, again, I'd say early days, it's a very strong robust relationship and we're working through those multiple areas that we've talked about.
What we'll do better on is telling you once we've accomplished something as opposed to what's coming that's not been received.
So what not these calls, that said with the 8,500, we’re looking at building models for that sales force.
And you can think of traditional investment capabilities that would be available, some of the other wire houses.
So it's not as different as – it is different.
But again, the commonality is there that, [indiscernible] frankly, we are in multiple conversations around the general accounts, right now with MassMutual.
And again, once we accomplish something, we'll let you know.
Glenn Schorr And the models are that a product of Jemstep being… Greg McGreevey It's really the solutions team that's doing them sort of building a combination of our active and factor capabilities and in consultation with the CIO and what they are looking for their client base.
Glenn Schorr Cool.
And then maybe just you could just update us on GTR.
I wish that on the past and choppy markets like we saw this quarter, that was decent backdrop for GTR, just – if you could just talk about what you're seeing on the ground in terms of potential demand?
Loren Starr I mean, I think what we've seen is, there's been a fair amount of outflow in the retail side, particularly in EMEA as that product has underperformed some loss.
And I think there's sort of generally been, again, as I mentioned, sort of risk loss and people have sort of moved into cash.
It still actually appeals to a lot of people in principle in terms of what it's trying to achieve as an outcome in a lower risk than the equity markets with good return over cash.
It's currently, I think, it’s somewhat underperforming that level maybe by 200, 300 basis points.
It's been improving in the current market.
And so the performance has instead of come – is moving in the right direction.
So again, we're hopeful that we can see that product at least stabilize at a minimum as opposed to sort of currently where it's in that flow.
Glenn Schorr Okay.
Thanks, Loren.
Operator Thank you.
Our last question comes from Kenneth Lee with RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Kenneth Lee Hi, thanks for taking the question.
Just to follow-up on the UK flows, I'm looking at it from a broader perspective.
Just wanted to get some of your thoughts, whether any of the recent regulatory activity or Brexit have been changing client preferences over the past year?
And maybe just how would you characterize the sentiment of clients within the UK?
Marty Flanagan Yes.
Look, it is a – yes, it's really wearing on clients, right.
It's been about Brexit transition has been a long and difficult, but from our perspective, where it's really come to light where you can feel it.
It's really 2018 into this year.
I mean, you can see it in our business, you can see it in the actions of clients and what they're doing.
So it's more of a movement to risk off cash type things.
So we're seeing less of a movement towards passive as you see here in the United States.
So again, it has been a headwind.
Again, so what have we done about it?
We take it’s been very important to change our ways to support our clients and Intelliflo was an important part of that.
And again, it was [indiscernible] Greg talked about the active performance was picking up what we are, as you see now and our portfolios are – we are bringing factors and passive into the market.
And that is also something that we'll need to be on the Intelliflo from also that trend will pick up there in our mind.
And again, I think you can see it just more broadly from our ETF flows throughout EMEA that is incredible strong.
And right now, we're the number two flowing ETF provider in that part of the world.
So again, source transaction was very important for us and we see that pace just picking up as we look to the future.
And if you remember when you go back when we announced it, you can look at the ETF business in EMEA literally looks like its 10 years behind where the United States was.
And that was a couple of years ago.
And you are absolutely seen that demand pickup as we anticipated, and we are a beneficiary of that.
And we looked at that as another area of very important growth for us.
Kenneth Lee Great.
That's helpful.
And just one more looking further out when you take into account, potential synergies with MassMutual fully integrated sales force being able to leverage a broader product set.
Any updated thoughts on what could be like a long term potential organic growth expectations for the combined Invesco and OppenheimerFunds complex?
Marty Flanagan Yes.
I wish I had that crystal ball, but what I will tell you is, our organic growth rate will exceed that of our competition.
And we've strongly believe with what we're building and what we have built, puts us in a very strong position for where the industry is going and how we're position against it.
And so we are starting to see that in very – the areas that we've talked about on this call.
Are they all at full potential?
Absolutely not.
But they are absolutely contributing, right now we're seeing it and you're seeing it and we're very excited about it.
Kenneth Lee Great.
Thanks.
Marty Flanagan Yes.
Operator At this time, we have no further question.
Marty Flanagan Great.
Again, on behalf of Loren, Greg and myself, thank you for your time and appreciate the questions and the dialogues.
And have a great day.
Operator That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
General Motors Company (NYSE:GM) Q3 2019 Earnings Conference Call October 29, 2019 10:00 AM ET EPS of $1.72 beats by $0.35 Revenue of $35.47B (-0.89% Y/Y) beats by $259.03M  Company Participants Rocky Gupta - Treasurer & Vice President of Investor Relations Mary Barra - Chairman & Chief Executive Officer Dhivya Suryadevara - Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Conference Call Participants Joseph Spak - RBC Capital Markets John Murphy - Bank of America Itay Michaeli - Citi Adam Jonas - Morgan Stanley Ryan Brinkman - JP Morgan Brian Johnson - Barclays Dan Levy - Credit Suisse Emmanuel Rosner - Deutsche Bank Chris McNally - Evercore Operator Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the General Motors Company Third Quarter 2019 Earnings Conference Call.
During the opening remarks, all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
After the opening remarks, we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded Tuesday October 29, 2019.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Rocky Gupta, Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Rocky Gupta Thanks Dorothy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us, as we review GM's financial results for the third quarter of 2019.
Our press release was issued this morning and the conference call materials are available on the GM Investor Relations website.
We are also broadcasting this call via webcast.
I’m joined today by Mary Barra, GM's Chairman and CEO; Dhivya Suryadevara, GM's Executive Vice President, CFO, and a number of other Executives.
Before we begin, I would like to direct your attention to the forward-looking statements on the first page of the chart set.
The content of our call will be governed by this language.
I will now turn the call over to Mary Barra.
Mary Barra Thanks, Rocky, and good morning everybody, and thank you joining the call.
As you know, we have a ratified labor agreement and I am very glad that our highly skilled employees are back to work building winning cars, trucks, crossovers and components.
From the outside, our goal was to reach an agreement that works for our shareholders, our employees and our company as we confirmed the realities of our rapidly transforming industry.
A contract does the right thing for our employees without compromising competitiveness or flexibility.
It includes improve half forward for our in progression and temporary workers that will create more engagements and a motivated team.
This is foundational for our improving job satisfaction, health and safety, quality and productivity, all of which will strengthen the future of this company and creates shareholder value.
The contract also affirms our commitment to a strong U.S. manufacturing base with planned investments totaling $7.7 billion.
We'll secure the future of our Detroit-Hamtramck assembly plant with an all-new electric pickup truck that builds on established truck leadership.
We’re also moving forward on an effort to bring battery cell production to the Mahoney Valley in Ohio, which will create 1,000 manufacturing jobs.
Before I continue, I want to thank our dedicated suppliers.
They were in constant contact with us throughout the work stoppage and ensuring as they would be ready for a prompt, safe restart once the new contract was ratified.
And I'd also like to thank our dealers who helped us sustain our momentum in the marketplace and they worked very hard to minimize the inconvenience to our customers caused by our limited ability to shift service and repair part.
To speed up recovery and get cars flowing to dealership, comprehensive plans are in place to allow the network to recover as quickly as possible.
So now, we are moving forward as one team.
However, we have a lot of work to do in many areas, as the loss profits from the work stoppage were significant.
In a few minutes, Dhivya will talk about the financial impact of this drive and our full year outlook.
Overall in the third quarter, we delivered net revenue of $35.5 billion, EBITDA adjusted of $3 billion, EBIT adjusted margin of 8.4%, EBIT, EPS diluted adjusted of $1.72, automotive adjusted free cash flow of $3.8 billion, and a ROIC adjusted of $21.9 on a trailing four quarters basis.
Looking at North America, we delivered strong business performance in the quarter which was unfavorably impacted by the strike in the United States and increased warranty and retail cost related to our previous generation full size pickup trucks and full size SUV.
Overall, retail deliveries rose 6% year-over-year led by double-digit gains and light-duty Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra pickups and strong demand for our all new heavy-duty pickup trucks.
Cadillac continues to capitalize on its expanding crossover portfolio in the United States and China.
In the US, Cadillac crossover deliveries increased by 67% in the quarter led by the segment leading XT4 and the all-new XT6 which is gaining momentum in the market.
In China, the XT4 and the new XT5 helped drive deliveries up 11%, amidst lower industry sales.
With the XT6 joining the lineup, we expect Cadillac will further strengthen its position in China's growing luxury SUV segment.
Our luxury sedan portfolio updates continue with the launch of the all new CT5 midsize luxury sedan in China this quarter by early next year by the U.S. built CT5 and CT4 in North America.
Finally, as we look at meeting customer demand, our U.S. dealerships finished the third quarter with a healthy level of inventory.
As the strike continued, our teams work tirelessly to ensure we could ship as many vehicles as possible to our dealers.
However with no additional vehicles in the pipeline for many weeks, our dealer inventories will be temporary leaner than we'd like.
The team is doing everything that's powered to restore our supply of vehicles back to normal levels.
Regarding our international operations, in China, the business environment remains challenging and volatile.
Year-over-year, industry vehicle sales declined nearly 11% in the quarter.
We underperformed relative to the industry mostly because of segment shifts and lower demand for outgoing models, partially offset by growth in Cadillac delivery.
In addition to taking appropriate cost actions, we are improving our product mix.
We launched seven new models in third quarter with plans to launch five new and refresh models in the fourth quarter.
In addition, the team continues to focus on accelerating cost reduction initiatives to improve performance, given the business environment.
In South America, we continue to take steps to improve the business and protect our strong franchise while navigating FX and other macro challenges.
In September, we launched the all new 2020 Chevrolet Onix plus in Brazil.
It is the first model in South America from our new global family of vehicles and carries a five star safety rating.
During its initial month on sale, customer demand greatly outpaced available supply and we are doubling our production this month.
The Onix hedge back follows next month and together, we believe these new vehicles will further strengthen our Chevy brand leadership and Onix position as the region's bestselling vehicle.
As we execute our turnaround plan for international operations, we continue to take decisive steps to achieve sustainable profitability in every market we participate and cease operations that are not.
Earlier this week, we announced our intent to cease selling Chevrolet vehicles in Indonesia over the coming quarters.
Turning to our EV progress, Chevrolet is launching the 2020 Bolt EV with battery improvements that enable an EPA estimated 259 miles of all electric range at a full charge at the same price.
The more powerful battery pack is the same size and weight as previous year's models, but its greater energy density delivers 21 additional miles of range and that's more value to our customers.
It's built on our industry leadership and improving battery range and reducing battery cell powers per kilowatt hour, and we expect this progress to continue.
The 2020 Bolt also retains what our customers love about this vehicle, instant torque, excellent riding handling, and a zero to 60 times of just 6.5 seconds.
And on the AV front, Cruise increased its testing and validation mile during the quarter and increased its community engagement and relationship building.
In addition to Cruise, GM and Honda continued their joint development of a new purpose built shared autonomous vehicle.
So to recap, our strong operating performances in the quarter were supported by a robust sale of trucks and crossovers in the United States.
We've also made significant progress at our transformational cost initiatives.
GM has achieved 2.4 billion and transformation cost savings in 2018 and is on track to realize our 2019 targets.
Because of additional planned investments in U.S. manufacturing, we will revise our year-end 2020 cost savings started to arrange between $4 billion and $4.5 billion.
We will take all of the necessary steps to achieve as much as possible to our original savings target.
The strike did have a big impact on our Q3 EBIT adjusted results and will also significantly impact our Q4 results.
Most of our 2019 strike-related production losses will not be recovered in 2019 because of capacity constraints.
Therefore, we are revising our 2019 EPS-diluted adjusted in automotive, adjusted automotive free cash flow guidance.
Our full year, updating EPS diluted adjusted outlook is now on the range or $4.50 to $4.80, and our new adjusted automotive free cash flow guidance is zero to $1 billion.
I have asked the GM team to find every offset, now that production has resumed and I'm confident they will find many opportunities.
So with that, I will turn it over to Dhivya.
Dhivya Suryadevara Thanks, Mary, and good morning everybody.
Today, I want to discuss our performance for the quarter, the impact of the strike, the labor agreement, and finally our outlook for the year.
In the third quarter, we generated $35.5 billion in net revenues, $3 billion in EBIT adjusted 8.4% margin $1.72 an EPS diluted adjusted and $3.8 billion in adjusted automotive free cash flow.
The EBIT adjusted impact of the strike in the third quarter was $1.3 billion on a gross basis.
This reflects lost production of a richer product mix as we launched our high content, high margin heavy-duty crew cab, as well as the impact of last aftermarket sales.
This impact was partially offset by approximately $300 million and strike related favorable of timing items.
Net of these turning items, the EPS during the quarter was lowered by approximately $0.52, and the adjusted automotive free cash flow was lower by approximately $400 million due to the strike.
Adjusting for the impact of the strike, EPS would have been $2.24 an all-time quarterly record.
The $1.72 EPS diluted adjusted also includes a $0.15 loss from Lyft and PSA revaluation.
Now let's take a closer look at North America.
North America delivered EBIT adjusted of the $3 billion, up $200 million year-over-year, and 10.8% margin driven by our heavy-duty truck performance, our crossover performance and the benefits from our cost actions.
This was partially offset by the impact of this strike, warranty costs and lower pension and health.
Our newly launched heavy-duty trucks contributed favorably to volume, mix and price during the quarter.
Market share for our large pickup trucks continues to improve, up 5 percentage points in Q3 year-over-year.
We started deliveries of our heavy duties in Q2 and we have gained 6 percentage points in market share since the launch.
Our light duty pickup trucks improved 6.8% at retail in Q3 year-over-year to over 40% as we rolled out diesel and other cab variants.
We will have the same launch gate and strategy for the heavy-duty as we did for the light duty with the rollout of double cabs next, followed by regular cab.
Switching to crossovers, U.S. deliveries grew 29% year-over-year with a Chevrolet Blazer and Cadillac XT6 providing strong contributions to our results.
Let’s move to GM International.
For the third quarter, EBITDA adjusted in GMI was down $200 million year-over-year driven by lower equity income in China.
Continued industry weakness and pricing pressure resulted in Q3 equity income down $200 million year-over-year from record Q3, 2018 level.
We did see slight benefits from improved mix partially due to our recently launch vehicle.
A few comments on GM Financial, Cruise in our core segment, GM Financial posted record quarterly revenue of $3.7 billion in the third quarter and record EBT adjusted of $700 million primarily as a result of portfolio growth.
Cruise costs were $300 million for the quarter on track with approximately $1 billion communicated previously for the full year as we increased our headcount.
Core segment costs in the third year -- sorry third quarter were $500 million, unfavorable $400 million year-over-year primarily due to net loss of $280 million from Lyft and PSA investments in the third quarter of this year compared to a $170 million gain from our PSA investment in the third quarter of last year.
We have made significant progress on our transformational cost savings initiative with $2.4 billion achieved since 2018.
We’re on track with our 2019 target of $2 billion to $2.5 billion, achieving $1.9 billion year-to-date and $800 million in the third quarter.
Let me update you on our outlook for the calendar year.
The recent strike is obviously had a negative impact on our financial performance in Q3 and more so in Q4.
We estimate the calendar year EPS diluted adjusted impact to be approximately 4$2 per share and adjusted automotive free cash flow impact to be approximately $5.5 billion including the impact of working capital unwind.
The $2 in EPS reflects lost production of a richer mix, lost after-market sales, start up and ramp cost, and is net of a higher U.S. tax rate on last earnings.
While we continue to work on strike recovery efforts, we anticipate that we have small portion of the losses sustained during this strike can be recovered this year due to capacity constraints.
Factoring in all of this, our updated 2019 EPS diluted adjusted outlook is in the range of $4.50 to $4.80.
Catching on CapEx, we expect 2019 CapEx of approximately $7.5 billion this year due to timing and early achievement of commitment.
Updating for this and the impact of the strike, we expect adjusted automotive free cash flow guidance in the range of zero to $1 billion.
I would like to provide some additional perspective on this guidance.
The underlying EPS and free cash flow guidance is consistent with the range given in January.
We have experienced the highly unusual situation with the shutdown of our North American operations for six weeks.
We are restarting our operations very close to year end and the speed of production ramp and timing factors are very difficult to predict at this point.
We have provided the best estimated outlook given the information that we have today.
Next, I want to briefly talk about the impact of our new labor agreement.
The new agreement preserves our competitiveness, manufacturing flexibility, and balance sheet strength without compromising earnings power.
We have maintained the mix of our North American manufacturing footprint, maintained ability to adjust our work force in response to changing industry levels, protected the balance sheet with no increase to define benefit pension obligation and no payments or increase obligations to retirees.
We maintained breakeven levels in the 10 million to 11 million unit range in the U.S. and therefore preserved our ability to navigate through a downturn.
It is important to note that while this labor agreement is inflationary, we expect to offset incremental economics over the contract period with productivity initiative.
Finally, I want to briefly touch on 2020.
While we will provide full guidance in February, let me help frame the year by outlining a number of puts and takes.
Headwinds for 2020 include likely lower industry volume, downtime and ramp up for the launch of our full-size SUVs, higher depreciation and continued volatility in China and in South America.
Opportunities in 2020 include full year of heavy-duty truck production, transformational cost savings, and product launches including the Corvette, Encore GX, Trailblazer and our global family of vehicles.
The ability to recover loss production during the strike in 2020 will depend on industry performance and our capacity availability as we already run our full size truck plans at maximum three ships capacity.
Lastly, as a result of our decision to invest in our Detroit-Hamtramck plant, we will incur operating costs that were outside the scope of our original transformation plan.
While this slightly revises are year-end cost savings target to $4 billion to $4.5 billion, we will work to find every opportunity to maximize the cost savings potential.
We're committed to our capital plan of approximately 7 billion annually, and our long-term financial trajectory, including 10% core EBIT adjusted margin, and improving our free cash flow conversion.
In summary, the underlying business remains strong, and our guidance is consistent with the range given in January, excluding the impact of the strike.
We have a labor agreement that preserves our competitiveness and flexibility and we expect to offset economics over the contract period with productivity.
The environment is more challenging than just a few months ago, but the entire team is focused on our execution, both over the short and long-term.
This concludes our opening comments, and we'll now move to the Q&A portion of the call.
Question-and-Answer Session Operator [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Joseph Spak with RBC Capital Markets.
Joseph Spak Just to start on maybe some of the cash flow dynamics you mentioned, the CapEx lowered this year.
That was on part on timing and then early achievement.
Can you -- can we get some color on each factor?
I guess I probably want to gauge how much of the timing could impact 2020 on free cash flow.
I know you said, on average, $7 billion per year, but it seems like maybe 2020 might be a little bit higher than that.
And then also related to free cash, with the working capital unwind in the fourth quarter, how much do we expect to recover into 2020?
Dhivya Suryadevara Yes, Joe, I would say from a CapEx standpoint, the early achievement of the CapEx commitments and 2019 does not impact our commitment to achieve $7 billion in 2020.
So that commitment remains intact.
From a timing perspective, even though we pull forward in 2019, we still think we can achieve that.
To your question on free cash flow impact, obviously, there's the flow through from the profit impact into free cash flow.
In addition to that, we've seen working capital and sales allowance and policy and warranty and so on timing items are driving the remaining amount there.
So, the 5.5 comprises of the lost profit and the working capital unwind.
CapEx remains intact, and that's the map to get to the 5.5.
Joseph Spak Okay, and then I know that you said recovery a volume next year is dependent on the market and as you noted, you're running all out on the trucks.
But if we assume an environment in 2020, similar to '19, like just back in the envelope, I was sort of just looking at the calendar and counting days and make some assumptions.
It seems like you might be able to get back 50% to 60% of it, is that reasonable?
Dhivya Suryadevara I think it's really hard to call that now, Joe, partially because you also need to figure out what the trucking industry is going to be like i.e.
the segment share within the industry.
And to your point, we are running those all out.
It's difficult to add over time and travel overtime.
So, we will recover every unit that we possibly can.
It's just difficult to predict now at this point, what that would look like.
Operator Your next question comes from the line of Rod Lache with Wolfe Research.
Rod Lache I had a couple questions.
First, looks like the adjusted free cash flow with the adjustments you're making would have put this year's free cash flow at $5.5 billion to $6 billion, if it wasn't for the strike.
And it appears that you've got another $1 billion to $1.5 billion of savings for next year.
The original number was closer to $2 billion and it sounds like the variants there was Hamtramck.
So, what's evolved in your thinking on Hamtramck since earlier in the year?
Mary Barra So when we made the transformation announcement last year, although we had a battery electric truck in our plan.
As we continue to evolve that and looked at the full range of what we can do there to really maintain our truck leadership position and grow that into battery electric trucks.
We look at Detroit-Hamtramck is a great opportunity and company now getting an appropriate labor agreement there.
And so, we think this is a good investment in positions as well to lead in battery electric trucks as well as internal combustion trucks.
And so that is that portfolio as we further planted, it became clear that we can be more efficient doing that work there.
Rod Lache North America and GM Financial look like they were very strong this quarter.
Obviously, there's unusual items that affects both of those right now.
Could you just talk a little bit about those, aside from just the things like launch, but did you make any adjustments to pre existing warranties in North America?
And how should we be thinking about the cadence for GM Financial going forward and what that might, may mean for releasing cash from that business?
Dhivya Suryadevara From a North American standpoint, yes, it was a very strong quarter.
The cadence of our heavy-duty lunch helped a lot from a mix 10 points since we're rolling out, crew cab for the most part.
And that will normalize as we roll out the other variants as well.
To your question on no warranty, we had a $700 million year-over-year unfavorable and that was primarily driven by the K2 warranty cost that Mary mentioned in her remarks as well as there was a onetime favorable item in 2018 of last year which does not repeat in 2019.
So, from a year-over-year Delta perspective, that impacts as well.
And in Q3, I'd say rather that we go through a normal tour process from a warranty perspective and there were some top ups relative to that as well, but that was on the smaller side of things, that you capture that.
From a GM Financial perspective, the biggest item I'd point to is the fact that residual values have been coming in stronger than what we had previously accounted for.
So as you go forward there you may want to think about some kind of normalization there.
The offset to that would be continued growth in the size of the book as we move closer towards forecast.
Those are the normalizing items from GM Financial perspective.
Joseph Spak And just to clarify in North America, I was asking about the incentive accruals yet over 700,000 units of inventory, and I would have presume that you have make some adjustments just given that prospects for declining inventory.
Was there anything unusual there?
And can you tell us what’s expectation is for Q4 production at this point?
Dhivya Suryadevara Yes.
I’d say nothing specifically on the incentive side, we’ll obviously – it will be vehicle-by-vehicle driven by market dynamics and nothing specifically to point out there from a true or whatever perspective.
From a Q4 production, we are now back up and running and all of our plans are running all out.
Like we said, we’re going to take the opportunity to get any excellent that we can and that’s all we can comment on at this time.
And since we’re still in ramp up and we’re trying to maximize the number of units, we’ll have more to share about that when we report Q4.
Operator Your next question comes from the line of John Murphy with Bank of America.
John Murphy First question just around the labor agreement and the special attrition buyout program.
It looks like it's only targeting about 2,000 workers, but based on sort of what I’ve been able to dig up, it seems like half of your workers are senor, meaning they're getting defined benefit, pensions and natural attrition on an annual basis is about 2,000 workers.
So just curious why that even the special attrition program that buyout might not target more workers?
And then overtime in the next three years before the next contract, would that impact sort of natural attrition, meaning would be still expect to see 2000 per year?
So first is why is it a larger program?
And second, what kind of impact would it have on natural attrition overtime?
Mary Barra I think a couple of things here to think about it.
First of all, one big component of the special attrition program was to give people choices.
Although, we have job for everybody that was impacting by the un-allocation of three plans, we wanted to give them options and so there is a target there from that perspective.
And the other thing is, you can -- we think that again people wait and look and see if there is going to special attrition program, but then we also do see the natural attrition over the course of the agreement.
So, I would expect that to continue and that’s how we size what we thought the SAP should be.
John Murphy And Mary, when we think about those attritions whether it'd be special or sort of natural over the next few years, what is your plan as far as back feeling for those workers?
I mean, would there be replaced one-for-one with in-progression workers or entry level workers?
Or could there be folks then get hired out in California to work on cruise?
Just trying to understand sort of the thought process of what, how to size the labor for us going forward?
Mary Barra Well, I think it's a -- there is many different components of the labor force.
There is a Cruise labor force.
There is our salary workforce and then there is our representative workforce.
And I think your question is directed as the represented work force, we’re going to continue to work on productivity and we have opportunity there.
We also have a lot of opportunity continue to improve our manufacturing processes.
We’ve done a lot of work this year and complexity optimization, and we’re driving that in from a design for manufacture ability perspective into how we design vehicles.
We’ve also been able to find more and more opportunities to reuse without impacting our customers view of vehicle is being all-new especially when you look at some of the architectural components.
We also have a program we've been working on for many years call built-in quality level 4.
And by the end of the year, virtually all of our plants will have achieved built-in quality 4.
Our built-in quality level 4, which leads to first better health and safety and better quality as measured by two months and 12 months warranty performance.
So, we see, I'll say traditional productivity improvements.
We see efficiencies on how we designed vehicles and components from the DFMEA perspective.
And then, we see the results coming from our built-in quality level 4.
All those things are going to help us make sure we optimize the workforce and optimize our manufacturing costs.
As we need to hire additional workers, we’ll utilize both temps and I'm very proud of the fact that we provided an appropriate path to permanent employment for our temporary workforce and then also maintain the in-progression flow.
So, we'll utilize both of those depending on the plan and the situation at that plant.
John Murphy Got you, that's helpful.
Then just on the SUV launch.
Is there any change in timing for next year on the SUV launch given what's happened with the strike?
Mary Barra We haven't specifically said when those launches they will occur and will roll out all three versions next year.
And of course, the team is working to do everything possible to make sure we have successful high quality launches with minimizing the impact of the acceleration curve.
So those we still we'll get all those done this year and I'm not going to give any more specifics on timing.
John Murphy Okay.
And then just lastly, there's been a lot of negative comments on pricing, and some came from one of your cross-town rivals but also sort of in the press.
Yet the quarter, on your majors, you put up a $400 million positive, but more importantly you put up a $200 million positive on your carryovers.
What do you see in the pricing sort of competitive landscape for pricing?
I mean, is that $200 million positive from carryovers was that benefited by some shortages during the strike or you actually seeing some real net positive price on carryovers?
Dhivya Suryadevara From a majors perspective, I'd say it's mainly driven by our heavy-duty and the variance of the light duty, that we’ve recently launched.
So those were strong, and that's really the truck franchise that’s driving that.
On the carryover side, the outgoing model from a car perspective, we reduced our incentives on that quite a bit.
From a crossover standpoint, we were disciplined as well.
So overall, I would say positive, carryover a net price.
That's going to be quarter-to-quarter John, it's going to vary based on seasonality and so on and so forth.
But it's our intention, stay disciplined.
And as you can see in the quarter, with the net majors mechanisms that I just talked about, we have grown share for both light duties as well as heavy duties.
We plan on continuing on that path of being disciplined.
John Murphy And Dhivya, in a competitive environment, have you seen any deterioration there?
I mean, I understand you guys are pretty disciplined, but I mean, are you seeing sort of any kind of warning signs out there?
Dhivya Suryadevara I think there's definitely months where you see some competitive activity and then it normalizes and so on, but we're launching, we're going with our cadence.
And we're, the strength of the products that we put out are driving our market share gains this time.
Operator Your next question comes from the line of Itay Michaeli with Citi.
Itay Michaeli So just first question with inventory now being leaner, can you talk about opportunities you might have in Q4 and beyond to optimize for mix and pricing?
Should we expect mix to get richer over the next several months as you try to kind of manage the inventory situation?
Dhivya Suryadevara We're going to try and build everything that we can get Itay from a mix perspective.
We will continue down the path of rolling out the richer mix from an HD standpoint.
LD as low, we will, try and maximize it will make sense that our most profitable and as we go forward.
So we're going to be opportunistic as we go along.
And the other aspect is, obviously, from a country mix standpoint, there's places where we, there's places that are more profitable and there are places that are less profitable, and we're going to direct the amount of inventory that we have towards the more profitable places as well.
So, we will be opportunistic, it's hard to obviously sites that at this time, and we will provide more detail in Q4.
Itay Michaeli And just second Dhivya, on the 2020 puts and takes I think you mentioned lower industry volume as a headwind.
Can you put the more detail what you thinking regionally and globally?
Does that include the truck franchise, pickup truck industry and sales there still do not be strong throughout 2019.
Any additional color would be helpful there.
Dhivya Suryadevara  Yes, I think we still have another couple of months here to go to see what happens here.
But in 2020, we do think that China will remain volatile.
South America will remain volatile.
And here the United States with the economic growth are moderating here in the recent past and in the next year or so we're anticipating.
We're still planning for a lower industry, so healthy industry but a lower industry in 2020.
And we're going to have to, as we move forward here in the next few months before we get guidance, we'll put more specifically around that but any more than that it's too early to tell.
Itay Michaeli But just lastly on Cruise, I think back in July, Cruise mentioned they would accelerate testing and validation in the balance of 2019.
Any update that you can share in terms of miles driven and the overall activity that Cruise is undergoing in the second half?
Mary Barra I would say we're not going to give you a specific mileage, but they are doing exactly what they indicated, they would do in the summer timeframe.
Everything's going really well, as they need their milestones and as they continue to develop the economist technology.
So very much on track and not only on the technology, but also the work that they're doing in San Francisco in the community to make sure that the consumer is ready understands the technology and trust the technology.
So, both of those plans are perfectly on track.
Operator Your next question comes from the line of Adam Jonas with Morgan Stanley.
Adam Jonas Mary, over the next five years, will GM spend more R&D and CapEx dollars on EVs or internal combustion vehicles?
Mary Barra I believe it'll be EV.
Adam Jonas Thank you.
And do you think that do EV is require less labor then internal combustion vehicles, all else equal?
Mary Barra I mean I think you have to look at the entire vehicle.
Clearly from an electrification perspective, it's simpler from a component perspective than it is from an internal combustion engine.
But you know what the key things that we've done is light-weighting because light-weighting is so important across every component and from a body structures perspective, that light weighting generally requires a little bit more labor.
So, overall, I think it's somewhat last but I think you've got to look at the whole vehicle, not just the propulsion system.
Adam Jonas Thanks, Mary.
And just, I wanted to have a couple questions on Corvette.
And I Mark is not on the call here.
So, maybe we can follow up with him.
But Mary, what do you think of a Corvette SUV?
Mary Barra I appreciate that you think our core franchise is very strong.
I’m not going to talk about future… Adam Jonas I do.
Mary Barra Thank you, I can’t wait for the world to be able to drive the CA because its’ an outstanding vehicle and the value, the performance is I think just set the new bar and then the affordability I think is something we’re really proud of and is very true to the Chevrolet brand.
So I will just share with you we look at a variety of things as we move forward, but we recognize the strength of the core brands right now we’re focusing and getting the CA out and then the other variants including the convertible.
So, very excited about that product and what it will for us.
Adam Jonas I appreciate it.
Then I won’t ask about electric core that either right now, we can say that for later.
Finally then just you mentioned on China, I think when you were talking about 2020 expect that China that we’re headwind.
Can you elaborate a little bit more there on what was the market, what was the volume assumption or mix or price assumption within that, any other color on the China headwind, if I got that correctly for 2020 versus 2019?
Thanks everybody.
Mary Barra Yes.
Adam, I think it’s early to call it, I mean there is so much going on right now as you look at the volatility in China, look at where we’re still in the middle of where we’re trying to understand where the trades stocks are going to land and how that’s going to impact the overall economy.
So, we are seeing a vital environment and we’re also seeing a lot of pricing pressures.
And then as we look forward as we rollout more EVs, initially we’re going to see some margin headwind there.
So, I think when you look at all those things in 2020, we’ll have more color for that as we do that February earnings call for Q4, but those are the things that we’re seeing right now that we think we’ll carry into 2020.
Operator Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Brinkman of JP Morgan.
Ryan Brinkman Could you provide an update in terms of the impact of the new labor accord on your downturn resiliency in North America?
Can you remind us of your latest estimate of North America breakeven expressed in terms of U.S. light vehicle SAR and whether the contract changes that breakeven while?
Dhivya Suryadevara Yes.
Ryan, what we’ve previously talked about is the breakeven level of 10 million to 11 million units for the U.S.
This contact will not change that and how wide that is, is basically the comment that Mary made about productivity and other efficiencies offsetting the economics of the contract will certainly blame to that.
In addition to that from a flexibility standpoint what we’ve model in our downturn assumption is the ability to adjust the level of workforce based on what’s happening in the industry.
And a certain levels of supplement unemployment benefits to go with that and that just not change based on this contract which is primarily the driver the maintaining the downturn assumption of where they are.
Ryan Brinkman And I was encouraged in the release that you attributed the software banned industry sales in China to demand, to lower demand for your outgoing products.
Could you please provide us an update on the income and products in China like earlier in the year you were relatively optimistic about the sales and prospect potential from new launches including the first office, I think so called GEM Architecture.
Can you talk about how the sales and cost of the launch vehicles has extended relative to your expectation in China?
And then finally it would be great if you could update us with regards to the extent which you have or have not detected any perceived bias against U.S. based brands and the aftermath trade or other attentions in that market?
Dhivya Suryadevara Sure, sure.
And Ryan first of all, we haven’t really seeing and we monitored that we really haven’t seen any negative settlement.
So we think that’s very positive.
And we are in the middle of the launches for the year.
We had 11 majors including the Buick, which is a battery electric vehicle, the Buick Encore, Buick Encore GX, the Chevrolet Onix, the Chevrolet Trailblazer, and Tracker and then the Cadillac XT6 and then some Baojun products as well.
And then, there were several very important MCMs with across Buick [indiscernible] as well as the Chevrolet Monza and the Cadillac XT5.
So I think as you look at all of those vehicles into a market with the uncertainty and the economic issues or the macro issues in China, and say they're all on track, you were correct to note that we did have our first of Chevrolet Onix, which is the global family.
It's one of many launches in China and it is on track.
However, we did mentioned in my remarks that it is doing exceptionally well in South America because it's at the heart of the market and the biggest segment.
So, I think we need to see these vehicles get into the marketplace.
And I think a lot we'll see as we get into next year as well, but the launches are on track.
I do think, though, and some of them, as we did see a more significant drop off than we thought we would with the outgoing vehicle.
Operator Your next question comes from the line of Brian Johnson with Barclays.
Unidentified Analyst Yes, hi, good morning.
This is Steven [indiscernible] on for Brian Johnson.
Just wanted to drill that down on the potential recoup, some of the loss production took on the T1 pickup truck side in the 2020.
I guess assuming kind of an overall stable large pickup market into 2020.
Is it fair to say that GM is already running at max capacity?
And that's from a production schedule standpoint tentatively, as you think about 2020 is really no pretension that make up that loss production, especially if we get upside with large pick up market?
Or is there any kind of scope so we can work as we think through 4Q and into 2020?
Dhivya Suryadevara Yes, I would say that your assumption is correct in an industry level and a truck penetration level that similar to what we have today, where we already have scheduled, we can time and a lot of other overtime.
On a regular basis, we have these plans working max overtime.
So, the ability to add additional days is limited.
We will obviously try and find any voluntary opportunities to do overtime beyond that, but it's not something I would call my baseline at this point.
Unidentified Analyst Understood, thanks for the clarification.
And then in terms of the revised UAW contract impact, we outside in kind of got you about $115 million gross labor inflationary impact in 2020 ramping up to about 350 in 2023.
Just wondering, if that's kind of ballpark correct, and then also can you quantify the buckets of the dollar savings offsets some attrition buyouts absenteeism and other productivity initiatives?
Mary Barra Yes, yes, I think we -- given I said more broadly is that we really believe the inclinatory elements of the contracts or the economics that we can offset with productivity and there is plans well established.
We don't know yet exactly how the special attrition program is going to play out.
People have till the end of the year and find out for that.
So I think what you here from us though as a team that is committed to finding the right offsets to go forward and maintain and improve our competiveness.
Unidentified Analyst Okay, just in terms of the gross inflationary labor cost in fact was that, is that ballpark directionally correct in terms of $100 million in 2020 ramping up 350 in 2023?
Mary Barra Well, I mean, I think if you look at that, there's some parts of the contract, they're easy to do the math on.
And but I think there's others that, we will look to see how it plays out.
And some of that depends on the workforce, depend on how many people take the special attrition program, depends on the industry as we go forward, so I'm not going to put projections that far out.
Unidentified Analyst And then, just a last clarification question.
In terms of the revised transformational restructuring savings, the $4 billion to $4.5 billion, does that include the productivity initiatives you've outlined?
Or would that potentially provide some upside to get back to the original target of $4.5 billion?
Mary Barra I think first we're going to work to offset and then we're going to keep going, we won't stop when we get there.
So I think over time, there's upside, especially, and the broader elements we've talked about how we continue to improve, how we design vehicles that affect the demand, your manufacturing costs and our ability to continue to build quality institution and improve our quality system.
So all those things are going to contribute and although we revived it based on the decision we made, largely related to Detroit-Hamtramck.
We're going to continue to push the organization to continue to find cost opportunities.
And I would say that's the goal we set for the end of 2020.
It's not like after that we stop.
At that point, we'll evaluate the business and look for the next round of cost savings that we can drive into the business and commit to from an improving shareholder value perspective.
Operator Your next question comes from a line of Dan Levy with Credit Suisse.
Dan Levy Just wanted to follow up on the question on this productivity gains.
Could you give us some color on what initiatives you might be able to pursue or timing?
And more specifically, you've obviously been pretty successful with cost saves in the past.
I think probably one of the reasons why your earnings level has been rather elevated.
Just wondering how much the low hanging fruit may already be exhausted.
And you're going to have to dig in a little harder and it's not going to be as easy to some of these gains?
Mary Barra Well, I think, when we look at our comparison that Harbour or I guess, if Oliver Wyman does from productivity.
We still have opportunities to improve.
And it's not just, minutes per hour of and the way we design a job, it's much broader than that.
And I think we have a lot of opportunities to tap into as we really optimize our complexity and we leverage reuse.
And so, those are things that I'm very pleased that the organization has taken to a new level this year, and that will play out over multiple years because a lot of it is if you design the vehicle for design for manufacturer ability, doing that now will play out in years, when we actually launched the vehicle be it two, three, four years from now.
And don't underestimate the work that we've been doing on built-in quality level four, because for the plants that are already there, we definitely see just the fact that more vehicles are built in station means they spend, no time and repair.
And that's that savings as well.
So I believe, although I'm very proud of the manufacturing team of what they've already accomplished, and working across with the engineering organization, I think there's still much more to tap into and that's what we do.
Dan Levy And then just as a second question, one that's more existential and sort of touching on one of the prior questions.
Obviously, one of your publically stated goals, zero emissions future and that's probably requires a smaller footprint and what you have in place today.
So first of all, does this current agreement have any limitations on specifying limitations on what you can build for EVs?
And then just more broadly with your zero mission future roll, how aligned is your labor partner with you on this goal?
Will they ever service partners with you along this transition.
Sort of similar to what we see in Europe and Germany to addressing or future or is there interest simply look this is a four year agreement and once it expires than we’ll deal with the future as it comes?
Mary Barra Well, I think in this Europe agreement we are dealing with the future, if we look at from an EB perspective we already build the Chevrolet Bolt EV in our Orion plant in Michigan, very significant discussions that we had as it relates to the battery electric truck with our UAW as it relates to what we’re going to do to tracking and trading.
So, I think what we’re trying to do is, and first of all, there is no limitation.
So I want to make that very, very clear, but we are committed to the United States and committed to manufacturing in the United States.
We see a huge opportunity adding electrification and that's why we’re investing and I think in among the leaders in the EV space.
I think we are technology roadmaps that we have for sale development, we’re going to well position that and with the equipments we’ve made for the better are next generation or architecture which we call the BEV3.
So, this was all part of the discussions and I think as signifies but what we’re doing in Orion and what we’ll be doing into Detroit-Hamtramck.
Dan Levy I guess more specifically you have other engine and transmission plans out there that presumably in an EV world are deemed unnecessary.
Has there been any sort of discussions with the union in the future on how to deal with these plans that could potentially beyond necessary?
Mary Barra Yes.
I think that’s over a very long horizon.
We still see, you know, even when you look at the multitude of projections by 2030, is it 15%, is it 30% all in, that means the bells of the vehicles being sold in the country into rail combustion engine vehicles.
We’re well position because we’ve renewed all those architectures and we’ve invested in very efficient instead of combustion engine technology that will continue to improve.
So, I think this is going to play out over a number of years and there are components in the drive unit from an EV perspective that needs to be build somewhere.
So, I think we’re looking to do the right thing from a company perspective to drive shareholder value to leading EVs and do the right things for our manufacturing footprint and for our employees.
Operator Your next question comes from the line of Emmanuel Rosner with Deutsche Bank.
Emmanuel Rosner I was hoping you can provide a little bit more color on your underlying performance this year excluding the strike to the extent that's possible?
Your, the revised guidance just and then you add backs sort of this strike impact seems to be fix it 60 to 80 maybe the lower end of to reflect original guidance.
Is there anything?
Are there any like specific factors that you see that are playing that maybe on the softer end of what you have expected before?
I mean again, excluding strike, is it at the international?
Or is it China?
Is there anything you’re seeing in the U.S. that would account for that?
And as part of that question also just trying to understand better the tax rate impact, the new guidance is at the lower tax rate, is that correct?
Dhivya Suryadevara Yes.
So, number of questions there, so let me address them one-by-one.
The new guidance $4.50 to $4.80, you’re correct, we've subtracted the $2 and arrived at, so it’s the original guidance we gave in January less $2 on the upper end we clipped it by $0.20 as you’ve seen we’ve -- its’ been quite a volatile environment in China as well as the microeconomic of volatility we’re seeing in South America as well the FX environment that we saw earlier in the year, when we gave our guidance was very different from the FX picture that we have today, which is offsetting some of that as well.
So I would say that the weakness is predominantly more on the international front, the volatility that we're seeing.
And from a North America perspective as it seeing the performance quarter after quarter, it continues to be strong.
From a just from the tax rate perspective, the revised rate is primarily because the strike impact is you got to apply the U.S. tax rate to that strike impact, which is about 25% effective tax rate, that we're applying there.
So if you take our original tax guidance, subtract out the higher tax rate that's applicable on our strike impact, you get to your UN revised tax guidance.
So it's consistent.
It's just that you're applying a different tax rate than the weighted average tax rate on the strike impact.
Emmanuel Rosner Okay, that's great color.
And then just I was hoping can you give a little bit more color on the puts and takes for 2020.
And in particular, a few discrete items, you're talking about downtime and ramp up for the full size SUV, anything you're able to quantify in terms of specifically in the downtime there?
And then you did not mention raw materials as a potential tailwind, I was curious if you can give an update on what is represent this year and then how to think about it for next year?
And then the sort of discrete items would be warranty, obviously a fairly big charge which you explained, for the quarter.
Does that have a carryover impact as we move into next year?
Dhivya Suryadevara So, on the 2020 side, the puts and takes that I gave predominantly, a lot of industry uncertainty around the globe, that's what I would characterize as a primary headwind.
From a downtime standpoint, this is a complicated SUV full size SUV launch.
There's a significant amount of change that's happening from the current generation to the next generation.
So from a downtime perspective as well as more importantly, the line rate ramp up post the downtime, we're anticipating an additional headwind year-over-year, for full size SUVs.
I don't want to quantify that now since we're still working on how we can optimize the number of units that we're going to be able to put out in 2020.
So I will quantify that further in February.
But it is safe to assume that there will be a year-over-year headwind from a full size SUV perspective.
There will also be higher depreciation.
That's something has been consistent with in the past several quarters as our depreciation caches up to our CapEx level and we've been seeing a secular increase every single year.
And that's going to continue into 2020 as well.
And obviously this is non-cash, if you will know.
From a raw material and tariff perspective to your point, I said this before in prior quarters, there's puts and takes, it's hard to look at just one number and paint it all with the same brush.
But steel and aluminum we have seen tailwinds offset by precious metals, tariff as well as fuel costs, which impacts our logistic spend.
And so net-net, we are still at 500 million year-over-year headwind from a 2019 standpoint, we don't see that moderating, necessarily into 2020, since the headwinds that I mentioned are likely to continue into 2020.
And it's obviously hard to predict the tariff environment that we're going to be in.
So that's generally the headwind, tailwinds the remaining cost saving so far, we've achieved close to $2.4 billion of cost savings and the remaining cost savings are going to be realized over a period of time, according to our revised guidance.
You're going to have a full year of heavy-duty trucks and the product launches that I talked about.
Hopefully this gives you some color.
And finally on the warranty question that you had, we do see that a specific to Q3 of this year, I don't see a tail event into 2020 on that.
Operator Our last question comes from the line of Chris McNally with Evercore.
Chris McNally Just wanted to jump in on maybe the impact from a working capital standpoint on the change and the free cash flow guide?
So just really quick of the 5.5, it looks like 2.8 was worse than just the operations.
You back out the CapEx, it looks like something like a $3.5 billion or $4 billion drain on working capital.
Can you just confirm that it was all working capital and there's not any other sort of one time drivers for the cash flow because we're trying to think about the reversal next year?
Dhivya Suryadevara Yes, I would say that your EBIT impact seems to be on the low end maybe you're talking about the net income impact so from an EBIT prospective set up for, you going to talk about growth number there.
That, plus the working capital unwind, constitutes most of the 5.5.
There's no other like one time item or whatever else that's out there but the profit impact that you talked about us that sounds a little understated but it's potentially because of tax rate.
Chris McNally And then if we could talk about the without giving numbers like when we think about the reversal at some time in the first half.
I know you want to give guidance, but could you just sort of walk through the timing of how that would play out from an inventory standpoint?
Dhivya Suryadevara Are you talking about the reversal of working capital or the recovery of profits or both?
Chris McNally The reversal of working capital?
Dhivya Suryadevara So, reversal of working capital, we think that the low point is probably going to be sometime in November, as we cycle to the rest of the unwind, and payables and receivables will start back up 15 days after we start shipping, that cadence will continue.
So we do anticipate that you think part of the recovery in the second half of November and into the December.
And Q1, as you know, it tends to be a negative cash quarter because of our shutdown and the reversal after that.
But what you would see from a cash balance standpoint is that recovery starting in the second quarter of next year, into the rest of 2020.
Chris McNally That's perfect on the timing.
And then maybe this is more of like a from a communication standpoint.
I mean 2020 was already supposed to be sort of a better free cash flow year.
I think we asked that question a couple of different times on the call.
But you're already getting improvement of CapEx the reduction attention from a cash flow and income statement and then the FinCo dividend.
If we get this working capital benefit in 2020, is it the type of thing that you will actually be able to call out, so that we can start to understand what is the true because working capital wasn't one of the working, one of the benefits that we were expecting in 2020 and 2021, which likely will now be sort of core operation?
So is that something that you could fact out for the street as we go into 2020 and 2021?
Dhivya Suryadevara Yes, we will be very clear about how much of our 2020 free cash flow guidance comes from the working capital rewind and we will also be clear about how much of the cash based earnings i.e., the operating cash flow if you will and what that is year-over-year.
So from a communication standpoint we’re certainly be clear about that and beyond that you’re right we don’t want to take much more about magnitude of that until February.
Operator Thank you.
I’d now like to turn the call over to Mary Barra for her closing comments.
Mary Barra Thank you very much and thanks everybody for participating this morning.
If you look for several years, the team at General Motors has been making tough decision to make our business more resilient and more agile.
This discipline will help us overcome the impact of this strike we continue launching our heavy-duty trucks, the new Cadillac sedan.
And as we move forward, the upcoming launches such as mid engine Corvette and the next generation of full-size SUVs.
This leadership team has a proven track record of successfully navigating complex business issues, confronting headwinds and capitalizing on opportunity.
And I believe we have the best employees in the industry across the board.
They want to work and they come to work every day to do their best.
And they want General Motors to succeed and they want to be a part of that successful future.
So as we move forward together, we’re going to continue to build on the strong foundation we’ve laid and share and allow them to share on the future success of the Company.
But let me be clear, we’re also working hard to lead in both the core and EV and AV world and creates significant shareholder value.
And before I close, I want to let you know that we will host our Capital Markets Day in New York on February 5th, 2020.
This year in addition to providing our 2020 outlook, it will include our Q4 and our full year 2019 earnings results.
And we’ll share additional details about the Capital Markets Day in the near future.
So thanks everybody very much.
I appreciate your time.
Operator Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes the conference call for today.
Thank you for joining.
Salesforce.com, inc. (NYSE:CRM) Q2 2020 Results Earnings Conference Call August 22, 2019 5:00 PM ET EPS of $0.66 beats by $0.19 Revenue of $4B (21.82% Y/Y) beats by $41.63M  Company Participants John Cummings - Senior Vice President, Investor Relations Marc Benioff - Chairman & Co-Chief Executive Officer Keith Block - Co-Chief Executive Officer Mark Hawkins - President & Chief Financial Officer Bret Taylor - President & Chief Product Officer Amy Weaver - President of Legal & Corporate Affairs Conference Call Participants Mark Murphy - JPMorgan Heather Bellini - Goldman Sachs.
Kash Rangan - Bank of America Walter Pritchard - Citigroup Keith Weiss - Morgan Stanley Kirk Materne - Evercore ISI Richard Davis - Canaccord Brad Zelnick - Credit Suisse Jennifer Lowe - UBS Operator Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Salesforce Q2 Fiscal Year 2020 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following management’s prepared remarks, we will host a question-and-answer session and our instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.
Now, it is my pleasure to hand the conference over to Mr. John Cummings, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations.
Sir, you may begin.
John Cummings Thanks so much, Brian.
Good afternoon, everyone, and thanks for joining us for our fiscal 2020 second quarter results conference call.
Our results, press release, SEC filings and a replay of today's call can be found on our IR website at www.salesforce.com/investor.
With me on the call today is Marc Benioff, Chairman and co-CEO; Keith Block, co-CEO; Mark Hawkins, President and CFO; Bret Taylor, President and Chief Product Officer and Amy Weaver, President of Legal & Corporate Affairs.
As a reminder, our commentary today will primarily be in non-GAAP terms.
Reconciliations between our GAAP and non-GAAP results and guidance can be found in our earnings press release.
Some of our comments today may contain forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions.
Should any of these materialize or should our assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual company results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements.
A description of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions and other factors that could affect our financial results are included in our SEC filings, including our most recent report on Form 10-Q.
Before I turn the call over to Marc, let me provide a brief comment regarding Tableau.
I'm incredibly excited about our acquisition with Tableau software which closed in August 1st and have provided revenue guidance for Tableau for Q3 and FY 2020.
As previously disclosed in our 8-K United Kingdom Competition and Market Authority or CMA is reviewing the transaction and has imposed a whole separate order pending completion of its review.
Due to the whole separate order our ability to discuss Tableau today on this call is limited.
We're happy to be working constructively with the CMA as it conducts its review.
And with that, let me turn the over to Marc Benioff.
Marc Benioff All right.
Hey, thanks so much John.
I really appreciate it.
And hello everybody, I'm actually in Geneva, Switzerland and the team is in San Francisco.
I am in Geneva at the World Economic Forum headquarters where I'm attending our annual Board of Trustees meeting and also our international business committee of our top 200 CEOs in the world.
And it's been fascinating meeting.
But I'll tell you one thing that everyone is really excited about here is what happened in the United States which is that the business roundtable, one of the top two business groups in the U.S. published an incredible statement this week on the purpose of a corporation and talked about how the purpose of the corporation is to serve all stakeholders.
And why that's exciting here is many of the words that they were using almost exact phrases were written by Klaus Schwab, the founder of the World Economic Forum.
Over 50 years ago when he was at UC, Berkeley, and it's great to see the BR team take this incredibly progressive stance and I'm just very grateful to them because of course at Salesforce we do believe that business is the greatest platform for change.
Well, I want to just thank you, John for introducing that and also thank you everybody for being on the call today.
And as you can see, we had just incredible quarter here.
Revenue in the quarter rose to $4 billion, up 22% in dollars and 23% constant currency and we ended the quarter with more than $25 billion in total remaining performance obligation.
That was up 20% versus last year.
It's really amazing what's happening at Salesforce.
With our organic growth in our acquisitions of Tableau, Salesforce.org, ClickSoftware, we are raising our fiscal year 2020 revenue guidance to $16.9 billion at the high-end of our range representing about 27% growth year-over-year.
Now, we have really been very strategic in building out our Customer 360 platform.
This is our vision that really is at the heart of what's happening at the Fourth Industrial Revolution.
Everybody knows the Fourth Industrial Revolution is underway.
Everyone and everything is getting connected.
But behind all of those things is the customer and certainly all the customers that I'm working with here in Geneva, all the customers that we work with around the world, well, they realized that behind all that Fourth Industrial Revolution is their customer and that they need to build that Customer 360 platform.
And that's what we're doing.
We're doing everything we can to build/deliver this incredible vision and we couldn't be more excited to build out our Customer 360 platform organically as well as through the acquisition of some phenomenal companies and some phenomenal talent.
Now with Customer 360 we have just never really been better positioned for the future.
In fact, we're the beginning of an enormous wave of digital transformation, I'm certainly seeing that here in Geneva.
IDC forecast global spending on digital transformation to reach $1.18 trillion in 2019, that's an increase of nearly 18% over last year, truly quite amazing.
And Salesforce is at the center of this massive shift because every digital transformation of every single one of these companies that we're talking to begins and ends with the customer.
In fact, IDC also forecasts global spending on customer experience alone to reach $641 billion by 2022.
Every company needs a intelligent, 360 degree view of their customers.
They need to personalize every customer experience.
They need to predict customer behavior and anticipate their customer needs, and they need to build modern mobile apps quickly and deliver the right services at the right time on any device.
Well, that is Customer 360.
Our vision for bringing companies and their customers together and it will be a huge growth engine for us over the next decade.
And for our customers it's their aspirational goal.
They're all trying to create a Customer 360.
They want a Customer 360 to see what's happening with their customers in this incredible time of change.
And they want to understand their customers and connect with them like never before.
Salesforce is their number one CRM, and our Customer 360 platform is a leader in sales, in service, marketing, commerce, communities, integration, app dev and more.
Customer 360 includes amazing platform services such as absolutely leading artificial intelligence and breakthroughs, envision and voice, in mobility and security.
And because they're all built into the foundation of that platform they're available to everyone our customers, to every app, and everyone.
We're operating a tremendous scale.
Just look at some of the daily milestones our customers have helped us achieve with our Customer 360 platform.
4 million sales opportunities and 4.3 million leads generated today, 77 million service case interactions log, 4.1 billion messages and email sent, 4.2 million orders processed bot, 53 million reports and dashboards created every day and 700 million commerce pages.
We're delivering world-class AI with Einstein, Salesforce Einstein in Customer 360.
It's actually generating now and I know many of you've been following this and it's been incredible for me to see this.
But we actually do now 8.6 billion Einstein predictions a day using our market-leading artificial intelligence platform.
We've also made Einstein Voice and Einstein Vision available to every Salesforce app and these AI-powered capabilities are the future of the customer experience.
We're also extending the power of Customer 360 with new services like Salesforce Blockchain, Salesforce Maps and as we've seen this quarter is specifically Salesforce Blockchain is the world's first declared Blockchain solution for CRM built natively on our platform.
And with this new Salesforce Maps we're adding intelligent location-based services that improve productivity for sales and service employees to the field was built really building out that Customer 360 vision and our team has just done an incredible job getting this in the hands of customers.
At the heart of Customer 360 is our incredible community of our Trailblazers.
They are using Trailhead, our free online digital learning platform to get the skills they need for the jobs in the digital economy.
We're more focused on this digital education than ever and we realize to achieve this vision of a new economy that we all want, we have to deliver this next-generation vision of education as well.
We now have 1.5 million learners changing their careers and changing their lives on Trailhead.
It's a 50% increase over last year and really cool, just last week we announced a partnership with Southern New Hampshire University, one of the fastest growing universities in the U.S. so that Trailblazers can now earn college credit for free on Trailhead.
That's just an incredible lean forward for Trailhead.
Well, Saleforce skills are in high demand.
For those of you who watch what happen, I think just now about a week ago we saw that the Salesforce developer was ranked at the second number two on GlassDoor's list of jobs are the best career opportunities that was amazing for us.
A huge economy is developing around Salesforce one that will create more than 3 million jobs and more than 860 billion GDP impact worldwide by 2022 and we'll continue to create opportunities for everyone to participate.
With our Customer 360 vision with amazing Einstein innovations, the millions of Trailblazers innovating on our platform, Salesforce is incredibly well-positioned to help companies transform their customers.
And you'll see all this at our – all this amazing innovation and all this amazing customer success at Dreamforce which this year will be November 19th in San Francisco.
You probably know it's almost sold out, so you better register now.
We are really right down to our last few seats and we'll be bringing together the thought leaders, industry pioneers, amazing innovators, incredible customers and of course all of our Trailblazers for four days of customer success stress, innovation of quality and learning.
Dreamforce is an expression of our core values, our commitment to giving back which have been the key to our success to the business over the last two decades.
For those of you know, we also something about to come out which is my -- our new book Trailblazer, the Power of Business is the greatest platform for Change including many of the concepts pioneered by Klaus Schwab here at the World Economic Forum in Geneva.
It comes out on October 15, so you can preorder your book now and I hope you'll get a chance to read it.
And let me know what you think at Dreamforce.
And until then, I will look foresee you all of you in November.
And now, over to Keith.
Keith Block Thanks Marc and thanks everybody for joining us on the call today.
As Marc said, we have an incredible opportunity ahead as more and more companies invest in their digital transformation.
Across every industry, every geography, they are turning to Salesforce as their trust advisor into our Customer 360 platform as the foundation and catalyst of their growth.
That's clearly reflected in our Q2 numbers as we continue to see great result across our clouds, our industry solution and our region.
The hundreds of customers that Marc and I meet with every quarter are looking for a vision and they're looking for strategy that will help them propel their growth and to get closer to their customers.
They're asking us about the future of their industries.
They are asking us about their peers, their competitors and how are they transforming.
They're asking us about best practices from other industries.
They're asking us most importantly about how to innovate.
But it's not just about technology.
They also want to learn about Salesforce culture and our values and how we can help them drive success with their customers, their partners and their employees.
Now, throughout the quarter, we continue to build and strengthen our relationships with leading brands around the world.
FedEx selected Salesforce in the quarter is the platforms for their customer service transformation.
FedEx will use Service Cloud Einstein in their call centers to drive agent productivity with AI-powered recommendations in Einstein analytics to get a deeper understanding of their customers needs across their business.
The Union Pacific Railroad system, one of the world's largest transportation companies chose Salesforce as its unified CRM platform to deliver faster, more proactive service.
Now that includes automated shipping notifications and tracking updates, so customers can plan better and improve their shipping experience, very important.
Airbnb turned to Salesforce to power its global messaging program.
Airbnb expanded with Marketing Cloud that continue to deliver meaningful hyper personalized communications with its community of guests, hosts and travelers engaging with all Airbnb users across the globe on a single platform.
And we continue to expand our relationship with Marriott, one of the world's great companies which is using Salesforce to better anticipate each guest travel needs and display relevant offers during that stay and provide a more personalized customer experience.
Now, in May we have announced Einstein Analytics for financial services giving wealth advisors, managers and retail bankers that AI-powered insights they need to better serve customers and grow their book of business.
Our momentum in financial services continues.
We expanded our relationship with HSBC and form the new relationship with Unicredit in Italy in the quarter.
In the public sector, the U.S. federal government increased its Salesforce investment including the Bureau of Land Management, the USDA and U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
A critical part of customer service for many of our customers is also field service.
It is incredibly strategic to their operations and differentiates them, and that's why as of Q2, Field Service Lightning is growing at nearly 100% year-over-year.
Now in the quarter FOX Sports chose Field Service Lightning to manage production workflows, employees, equipment, facilities, rentals and more for its live broadcast.
And with our recent agreement to acquire Click Software we'll be able to deliver even greater field service innovation to our customer, so that's very, very exciting.
Our international revenue growth continued in the quarter, super strong with EMEA growing at 30% ,APAC growing at 27% year-over-year both in constant currency, AXA , one of the largest insurance companies in the world is on a journey to a global 360 degree view of every customer and in the quarter they made a number of strategic investments across several divisions including deploying service filed to give their insurance agents the complete view of every customer enabling them to have smarter or personalized conversation.
In EMEA, we form new relationships with HDM in Germany, the largest global manufacturer of offset printing press and fashion retail organization Esprit, both choosing Commerce Cloud in the quarter.
In Australia we expanded with ANZ Bank [ph] and form new relationships with Ramsay Health Care and the Australian Department of Environment and Energy.
In Japan, we expanded with Hitachi and Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance.
Our partners very critical to our strategy continue to help us deliver customer success.
In Q2 partners were engaged in 68% of our new business.
And these partners continue to invest in their Salesforce practices.
Global partner certifications are up 40% year-over-year.
That just keeps going and going and going.
All seven of our top consulting partners run their practices on Salesforce, and Salesforce is their fastest growing enterprise practice.
Strategic partnerships are absolutely critical to our future and that's why we're thrilled about our new relationship with Alibaba, as a global company it is important for us to support our multinational customers wherever they do business.
And finally, we close our acquisition of Salesforce.org in the quarter and we continue to seek incredible demand in the non-profit and education verticals.
We work with more than 44,000 non-profit and higher education customers and our employees have given more than 4.3 million volunteer hours and we delivered nearly $300 million in grants which is pretty amazing.
Last quarter, I mentioned making investments to fill the next chapter of our growth around the world.
Now part of that investment is bringing incredible talents into the company and we've been very fortunate at two extraordinary executives at EMEA and APAC to our international leadership team.
Later this fall, Jayne-Anne Gadhia will become CEO for Salesforce U.K. and Ireland and Pip Marlow will be joining us as CEO for Salesforce Australia and New Zealand and we're very excited to have both on board.
They are both great executives.
And on closing, I'd like to thank our employees, our partners and our customers around the world for their support and of course our company's great execution, so thanks to everybody.
And now, I'll hand this off to Mark Hawkins.
Mark Hawkins Well, thanks, Keith.
As you've heard we delivered strong results in the second quarter, including generating durable organic revenue growth and organic operating margin expansion year-over-year.
Here are few highlights.
Total revenue grew 22% in dollars and 23% in constant currency.
Excluding Salesforce.org total revenue grew 20% in dollars and 21% in constant currency.
cRPO grew 23% in dollars and 25% in constant currency and we continue to put up solid organic revenue growth across each of our clouds and in our geographies.
There are few moving parts here for Q2 results, so let me take you through some of the additional details starting with revenue.
Total revenue for the second quarter was $3.997 billion including $54 million of acquisition of Salesforce.org.
Just as we saw in Q1, we continue to experience FX headwinds to revenue in the second quarter of approximately $34 million year-over-year and approximately $20 million sequentially.
Looking at the drivers of growth by cloud, we continue to see strong subscription and support revenue growth year-over-year with sales cloud growth of 13%, service cloud growth of 22%, marketing and commerce cloud growth of 36%, and platform and other 28% which probably includes $159 million of MuleSoft, approximately 54% of MuleSoft subscription and support revenue is treated as term license.
Let me call out a few other items related to the various cloud growth rates in the quarter.
First, the FX headwind of a total -- for total revenue that I mentioned earlier, represents approximately one percentage point of growth year-over-year, and that affected each of our clouds on a similar proportional basis.
Second, our acquisition of Salesforce.org represented approximately one to two percentage points of growth year-over-year across each of our clouds.
Third, this was the first quarter of a normalized year-over-year compelling MuleSoft.
So where MuleSoft now on the base period, the rate of growth of platform and other moderated in Q1 to Q2 as expected.
Adjusted for these items, we are very pleased to deliver robust organic constant currency revenue growth across each of our clouds in Q2.
Attrition also remain healthy in Q2 as we have seen over the past several quarters, with dollar attrition continuing to decline modestly year-over-year remaining below 10%.
Turning to operating margin, Q2 non-GAAP operating margin was 14.3%, down 349 basis points year-over-year.
As a reminder our Q2 operating margin EPS results were affected by the settlement of our reseller agreement with Salesforce.org.
This one time non-cash accounting charge of $166 million is reported as a discrete line item on statement of the income and was slightly lower than we anticipated.
We continue with our efforts to improve our operating efficiencies and we're pleased to deliver Q2 non-GAAP operating margin improvement excluding the Salesforce.org non-cash accounting charge of approximately 66 basis points year-over-year.
Q2 GAAP EPS was $0.11 and non-GAAP was $0.66.
In Q2 below the line mark-to-market adjustments benefited GAAP EPS in the second quarter by approximately $0.10 and non-GAAP EPS by approximately $0.11, business outperformance in the quarter ,along with a lower than anticipated salesforce.org settlement charge benefited GAAP and non-GAAP EPS by approximately $0.08.
Turning to cash flow.
Second quarter operating cash flow was $436 million, down 5% year-over-year.
Operating cash flow in the quarter was impacted by a recent M&A activity as well as continued FX headwind.
On a trailing 12 month basis, we're pleased to deliver operating cash flow of 25%.
CapEx for the quarter was $178 million, leading to free cash flow defined as operating cash flow less CapEx of $258 million down 10% over last year.
On a trailing 12-month basis we're pleased to deliver free cash flow growth of 26%.
Remaining performance obligation ended the second quarter approximately $25.3 billion, up 20% versus last year.
Current RPO which is approximately $12.1 billion was up 23% year-over-year and on a constant currency basis was up 25%.
Salesforce.org contributed approximately $200 million to this amount.
Now turning to Q3 and FY 2020 guidance.
We're pleased to be raising our full year FY 2020 revenue to $16.75 billion to $16.90 billion for full year growth of approximately 26% to 27%.
This guidance includes approximately $550 million to $600 million in revenue from our acquisition of Tableau.
Approximately $200 million in revenue from the acquisition of Salesforce.org and approximately $25 million in revenue from Click Software, excluding these acquired businesses we expect top line revenue growth of 20% to 21% year-over-year.
This outlook reflects approximately $200 million in FX headwind for the full year.
Turning to our outlook for operating margins we now expect FY 2020 non-GAAP operating margins to be down approximately 50 basis points year-over-year.
Our FY 2020 non-GAAP operating margin guide is the result of several factors.
First, is the one time non-cash settlement charge of $166 million related to Salesforce.org reseller agreement.
Second, is the blended margin profile of the recently acquired businesses namely Salesforce.org and Tableau, which we'd anticipate at roughly break even non-cash margins for FY 2020 inclusive of the purchase accounting.
And Click Software which is modestly diluted along with the associated transaction cost.
In fact, excluding the impact of these acquisitions this year, we expect our FY 2020 non-GAAP operating margin improvement year-over-year to be more than 150 basis points, which is higher than the improvement we've initially laid out at the beginning of the year.
For EPS we're updating our FY 2020 GAAP diluted EPS of $0.28 to $0.30 and our non-GAAP diluted EPS of $2.82 to $2.84.
For operating cash flow, we're pleased to be maintaining our FY 2020 operating cash flow guidance of 21% to 22% despite the increased expenses from recent M&A and the cash impact of FX headwinds.
For Q3, we expect revenue in the range of $4.44 billion to $4.45 billion or 31% growth year-over-year.
This guidance assumes revenue of approximately $300 million from Tableau and approximately $75 million from Salesforce.org.
We also expect Q3 GAAP diluted loss per share of $0.21 to $0.20 and non-GAAP diluted EPS of $0.65 to $0.66.
We expect cRPO growth of approximately 24% to 25% year-over-year in the third quarter.
This guidance assumes around two points of growth from Salesforce.org and two to three points of growth from Tableau.
Click Software does not have a material impact on the cRPO growth and excluding this acquired cRPO, we anticipate that our cRPO growth would be approximately 20% year-over-year.
Lastly, regarding our long term FY 2023 revenue target, we continue to be on track for this and to achieve our long term revenue goals on an organic basis.
And as previously discussed we plan to update these targets factoring in recent acquisitions during our annual Analyst Day at Dreamforce in November.
To close, we delivered another strong quarter of durable revenue growth and organic margin expansion.
We continue to invest to foolproof -- future proof our technology and scale of our business globally.
And I'd like to thank our employees, our customers, our partners and our shareholders for your continued support.
And with that, I'd like to open up the call for questions.
Question-and-Answer Session Operator Thank you, sir.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Mark Murphy from JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Mark Murphy Yes.
Thank you very much.
Congrats on a superb quarter.
Marc, I wanted to ask you, we're witnessing such a bifurcation in the retailer's results this year.
We've seen companies like Target and Wal-Mart and Home Depot doing well.
And at the same time it seems like the Amazon is hurting some of the others whether it would be Sears or Barneys or Nordstrom or the GAP or others.
I'm wondering if you're finding the retailers that adopted Demandware are actually competing better.
And then, and just -- is this retail apocalypse kind of causing companies in other industries Q1 to adopt Salesforce a little faster so that they don't get Amazon or uberized?
Marc Benioff Well thanks so much for that question.
I'll tell you that I think that we are rapidly heading towards this Fourth Industrial Revolution and that this digital transformation is hitting every industry, and retail certainly is one of the major industries that is really been taken the stand and deliver, and you are seeing a bifurcating between those organizations who are ready for this transformation and those who aren't.
But it includes not just the ability to have a strong digital presence but also being able to understand what your strength is in regards to your physical presence and making those to work together in a synergistic way.
Well, that is where the magic is for many of the organizations that you mentioned.
I work with a lot of those CEOs personally and I can tell you that they've done a tremendous job.
You mentioned Target, I mean you just have to go in and see what they've done online is matched as well as what they've done in the physical store.
I think that that's kind of an indication of where the future is going.
You didn't see of course Amazon moving into the physical world as well.
We've seen tremendous success with our own e-commerce platform.
We're very excited with Demandware.
And some of the customers that we've seen on that platform have really just trounced their competitors.
Of course there's a lot of good examples; Adidas [ph] is one, but there's so many others.
And every one of these companies needs a strong platform like Demandware, but I'll tell you it's more than that, it means that they have a real Customer 360 because once that customer actually gets to the store you want to know everything about them in terms of a 360 experience.
And we have a number of luxury retailers some that I can mention by name, but honestly a lot of them, so I just cannot by their own request who have done a tremendous job of integrating their digital experience and their physical experience.
And when you walk into one of their stores they say, hey did you know we have this new capability or that new capability where you purchase something and in this product line and it's made a big difference for them.
So you're 100% right that transformation in retail is underway and we're excited to offer that Customer 360 vision to the top retailers, so that they can offer whether it's in sales or service or as you mentioned e-commerce or marketing or app development or so many other things the ability to be competitive.
Thanks for the question.
Operator Thank you.
And our next question will come from line of Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Heather Bellini Great.
Thank you so much.
I mean, Marc you've been one of the most strategic visionaries in the software market over the last two decades.
And obviously you built one of the biggest cloud companies to-date through a combination of internal R&D and M&A and I guess that's where my questions would lie.
Can you share with us your vision for M&A as you look ahead and how you think especially now that you've kind of gotten into the on-premise market as well?
How you think about the marriage of the cloud footprint and the on-premise footprint?
And I guess the other question that we get asked a lot about and I'm sure others do on the line is, how do you think about the margin tradeoff that come with that bigger TAM?
And given Mark Hawkins talked about it on the call, the fiscal 2023 target there -- are there any thoughts of maybe ever adding a margin target to the [Indiscernible] inorganic number?
So I guess that's where my focus is.
Thank you very much for taking the questions.
Marc Benioff Well, thanks Heather and I'll let Mark directly addressed the issues of guidance.
But I'll tell you that, the way we look at it is innovation is happening everywhere and we have tremendous innovation happen been in the Salesforce, and that's been so important for us over the last 21 years.
But we're also in all of -- a lot of other innovation that's happening outside of our company and we've been fortunate to have a big enough view of innovation that it's motivated us to be one of the most innovative companies in the world because we were the hardest both organic and inorganic innovation I think in a really positive way.
And I have to also thank our customers because a lot of the ideas that we've created whether it's software we've – software we've built or companies we've bought it's really been driven by those customers.
I mean a great example just tying back to the last call is Demandware, one of those luxury retailers is based in Paris.
I was having a meeting with them, and they took me aside and they said the company that you should acquire is Demandware and here's why.
They had already moved to Salesforce and other services and -- but they had a gap in their Customer 360 and they wanted our ability to be able to connect Demandware into what we were doing so that they could have, be more competitive themselves.
And that has turned out to be really great for them and augment our vision of what CRM is and also being able to execute our Customer 360 vision.
I think that when I look out and I just was thinking about conversations that I had today, we're really at a moment in time where these top CEOs in the world all realize not only do their digital transformation has to be under way, their customer experience has to be first.
And I'll let Marc to answer the rest of the question.
Mark Hawkins Sure.
Thank you, Marc, and thank you Heather for the question.
We certainly highly prize the operating margin expansion.
It's something that's very important to us.
Over time as you can see over the last several years we've been expanding that.
We do make tradeoffs between our organic growth and margin.
The tradeoffs are something that we always look at when we look at this opportunity to serve the customer.
We have been making considerable progress over the years, but we know there's more work to be done and that's something that we're always thinking about and trying to focus on constantly improving.
We're certainly going to be talking about that in February when we give out our operating margin targets.
And I hear your point about exploring beyond one year, but certainly we'll be talking about the operating margin in February.
Operator Thank you.
And our next question will come from a line of Kash Rangan with Bank of America.
Your line is now open.
Kash Rangan Hi.
Thank you very much.
I'd like to first applaud the company for the tremendous amount of clarity and the straightforwardness of how you report your financials such as the organic versus the acquired currency impact.
You go through excruciating detail to make it abundantly clear how your core business is doing particularly the fact that margins are projected to grow excluding the acquisitions more than you anticipated.
So I just want to give you a round of applause on the clarity and straightforwardness of the disclosure.
Now the question for you Marc as you move ahead you're targeting a $28 plus million revenue company with the diversity of end markets that we've just simply not seen in software, the prior analogs and the on-prem with this SAP or Oracle.
Just didn't quite have the diversity of end markets that Salesforce.com is pursuing.
So as you plan to roughly doubled revenues, how does that go-to-market nature of how you're going.
How does the go to market strategy evolved as you attacked a breadth and complexity of markets that the world has simply just not seen, and there's no recipe to follow?
Marc Benioff Well, let me fill in some of it, but then also let me ask Keith really to fill in the rest.
I think you said it really well which is that we've worked really hard to build this Customer 360 platform.
It's taken us 21 years and it turns out, this is exactly what customers want and really need to be competitive in today's world.
And as we go to now execute and deliver that, we are focused on how do we do that by region, by country where we're really looking at how we're doing that by segment, it's extremely important.
And I think that for us certainly we started just with Salesforce automation.
That was our kind of soul app if you will.
But it was it was clear from a focus with customers that if we're going to continue to build serve them we had to get to customer – to Customer 360.
So, Bret maybe you also want to add to that and then Keith I think maybe it'd be great if you filled in on the go-to-market as well.
Bret Taylor Yes.
I think Marc, you put it well, which is as we think about our value proposition, it spans a lot of different markets, but it's all under this umbrella of digital transformation.
And I think the defining characteristic of companies in the Fourth Industrial Revolution is the things driving the digital investment is customer experience.
Customers are demanding that their interact with these companies in new ways.
And that does span the entire portfolio.
The question that came up earlier about Demandware and commerce, its a lot more than that.
When you think about what it defines your retail experience, it's about customer service, it's about buying online and picking up in-store, its about merging the physical and the digital.
It's about how you get recommendations and marketing after you've purchased something.
And so when I look at our portfolio, it spans wide breadth of functionality.
But when I talk to the CEOs of all the major companies in the world that's what they need to transform is all of the above.
And when they fragment their customer experience by thinking of them as separate categories or silos they can't actually achieve the vision of the digital native companies that you mentioned before.
So, I think our breath is an asset when we go into these conversations with our customers because I think we can provide a more complete vision for their digital transformation than any other company.
Keith Block Yes.
And listen, on their go-to-market side, we made a conscious decision over the last few years to really focus on three things.
One is how do you take an international company and turn it into a global company.
And there is a large difference between being an international company and being a global company, a lot of that is around culture behavior and how you solve customer problems.
The second was really a movement towards selling solutions and speaking the language of the customer and understanding an industry.
And just to give you an example of that, in two weeks, I have to go to New York which I'm very, very happy about to address the board of one of the -- I would say the most prestigious retailers in North America.
I talk about the future of retail.
A couple weeks ago I had dinner with the CEO of a different company, although same industry, but it's one of the largest retailers in the world and they want to talk about how our Customer 360 platform can help them drive growth and optimize customer experience.
So being able to understand the industry and enabling our field organizations and our entire company on understanding an industry and being able to solve the customer problem is a huge part of it.
The third piece of this is moving from a partner ecosystem to a strategic ecosystem.
And part of our ecosystem is really encompassing with our classic firms that we do business with like the Accentures, and the PWCs and the Deloitte to the world who are just well processed, but how do we extend that community to drive success for our customers everywhere in the world.
And that's why we formed partnerships with companies like Alibaba because we have the service companies all over the world, we have global operations, again I mentioned the word global.
It also means that we continue to invest in this Trailblazer community, where we want millions of people who evangelize and architect solutions that drive success for our customers.
And then the final component which I mentioned on the call is talent.
We are fortunate enough because of our culture and the type of company and our values to be a destination company for talent.
And we have attracted some amazing people whose careers we continue to grow, who are very focused on customer success, as well as these other folks like we talked about with the Jayne-Ann Gadhia, for example who's going to be running the U.K. eye for us.
And having those executives, having that talent in place who are passionate about customer success and driving solutions really makes us I think a very, very unique company and that's why you see the success.
And that's why we're optimistic about the future.
Operator Thank you.
And our next question will come from the line of Walter Pritchard with Citigroup.
Your line is now open.
Walter Pritchard Hi.
Thanks.
Question for Mark Hawkins or for Keith Block.
I think it's been a couple of years back, you gave a framework around cost to serve on Dreamforce Analyst Day.
And I'm wondering you are talking about seeing really good underlying margin progression in the business ex-acquisition.
Could you update us on into those two drivers where you're seeing the margin improvement which – it's a little bit harder for us to tell given the acquisition influence on each of the OpEx and cost of revenue line items, that'll be helpful?
Mark Hawkins Sure.
Well, first of all, thank you Walter and I'm happy to do that.
I think the thing that we are making progress on right now is in the area of gross margin.
You'll take note, we've been investing for quite some time to get more scale and capability there and we're pleased to see some progress on that.
We're getting also progress in our G&A areas as we look to make G&A more efficient as we scale up the company.
That's certainly an area that we're making progress as well.
We have a great initiative.
I think our team driving even customer success there in it to really help deliver an even better performance while also scaling.
And I think these are some of the areas in the cost in particular that we're doing.
And Walter, I would add just one additional point in an area of cost to book, that's always a choice, it's always a tradeoff.
And we just had a great market opportunity in front of us to serve our customer.
And we're obviously investing there but always looking for progress as well.
But those other areas are the key areas that we're focused on.
Walter Pritchard Okay.
Thank you.
Mark Hawkins You're welcome.
Operator Thank you.
And our next question will come from the line of Keith Weiss with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Keith Weiss Hi, guys.
Thank you for taking the question and a very nice quarter.
I wanted just Keith Block opinion on or perspective on potential synergies from the recent acquisitions particularly Tableau, given the success you guys have seen with MuleSoft over the past year, where should we expect sort of the biggest synergies?
What are you most excited about in terms of adding Tableau, and may we can put Click Software into there as well into the portfolio as we look over the next year?
And then one for Mark Hawkins, can you repeat the Tableau guidance again in terms of what the full year contribution is and what the Q3 contribution is.
Because it seems like it implies like a smaller Q4 than Q3.
I want to make sure I have those numbers right?
Marc Benioff Let me address – hi, Keith.
Let me address the first part of this and then I'll ask Mark Hawkins to comment as well.
So look, we're incredibly excited about Tableau.
It's a great company, a set of great products.
It's got an incredible development community.
It's got a great executive team and customers love their products.
As far as Click Software and I'll let Mark talk about Tableau in a second, but as far as Click Software, we're very, very excited about the Click Software acquisition.
As you may know Field Service is incredibly strategic to a number of industries such as utilities, telecommunications, equipment manufacturers and we have a very strong product in Field Service Lightning.
And the combination of Field Service Lightning which grew 100% by the way year-over-year in the quarter and Click Software is very, very compelling.
So that's a great example of marrying innovation organically and inorganically.
So we're super excited about that.
And Mark I know you have some comments specifically on the Tableau.
Mark Hawkins Yes.
I do in fact.
And let me take the numbers first and we'll talk about the synergy secondly.
First of all, Keith I just want to call off for the year as it relates to Tableau we're anticipating $550 million to $600 million contribution for the year, and of course that's not of the DRE [ph] write-down, number one.
Number two; for the quarter for Tableau I just want to reiterate that we're looking at $300 million and the Q3 time period again net the DRE write-down.
That's the first part of your question.
The second part of your question has to do with synergies.
And I just would call out and say that look, we're incredibly excited, but as discussed at the beginning of the call, we're running the companies separately right now as operating independently.
Right now, it's an incredible company with a fantastic product and leadership team.
We're so pleased about that and so excited about that.
But let me take a step back and address the spirit of your question.
We have a tremendous history with acquisitions of complementing organic innovation and being able to make progress in that way.
And when we do M&A, we're always looking for opportunities to make these companies even better and have even greater success for our customers, which is what it's all about at the end of the day.
So I've never been more excited about our ability to create more success for our customers that with the strategy, that's what I would say.
Operator Thank you.
And our next question will come from the line of Kirk Materne with Evercore ISI.
Your line is now open.
Kirk Materne Thanks very much and congratulations on the quarter.
My question might be for either Keith or Marc Benioff.
I was wondering if you could just talk about Europe a little bit.
It's obviously been a real source of strength through you over the last few quarters.
Just where is the market.
I think broadly just in terms of adoption and thinking about things like Customer 360 it seems like it's hitting a little bit of an inflection point and we just love your thoughts on that?
Thanks.
Keith Block Yes.
So, Marc and I have actually been flying around the world quite a bit.
I spent about a four-week trip where I was in Japan.
I was in the United States I was in Canada.
I was in the U.K. and Switzerland and France and Italy and meeting with CEOs from various industries in those geographies.
You can see from the results EMEA continues to be very, very strong for us with 30% growth in the quarter.
And just go back to the UniCredit situation that I mentioned in the earnings call.
This is a very strong bank in Italy.
I think we're all aware of the situation that's going on in Italy from a macro perspective, from a government perspective.
But the CEO of UniCredit is really betting the future of UniCredit around Customer 360 initiative and the experience for his customers that he wants and how he wants to transform that bank.
And that is the same conversation that is going on in every industry.
I was in Paris meeting with one of the largest bank’s CEOs in the world.
You know the Barclays story that we have in the U.K. We have industrial manufacturers in Germany automotive manufacturers who are trying to improve the customer experience and driving 360 degree.
So the one thing that is very, very clear to me is that whatever is going on around the world we see a buying environment.
We see CEOs investing.
And top of mind for them is digital transformation, which begins and ends with the customer.
And that's why they're talking to us and that's why you're seeing these results.
Operator Thank you.
And our next question will come from our Richard Davis with Canaccord.
Your line is now open.
Richard Davis Hey, thanks.
So, maybe a technology question.
So, I saw that you guys at Gartner ranked you guys, Salesforce as a leader in low-code and in addition you're doing really well in Decision Support with Einstein.
And then the other third area that's really hot these days is this whole robotic process automation.
So the question I have you maybe for Marc is because you're you think about these things is you know how do you see Salesforce participating in each of those three markets, because it sure seems to me that those three technologies are going to have to work closer with each other over time because they just feel like they're going to intersect and so how does Salesforce position itself for that kind of next wave of those three things kind of connecting with each other?
Thanks.
Marc Benioff Well, I'm going to actually ask Bret to answer that question.
I mean I think it's perfectly set up for him to deliver, so Bret you want to hit it.
Bret Taylor Yes, absolutely.
This is really our vision for the Customer 360 platform, which is a platform that works together with all these technology that's accessible to all of our Trailblazers.
And when we talk a lot about Trailhead and we talk about this vision of low-code, that's what we mean.
There is 1.5 million people are earning 15 million badges, are learning how to apply these advanced technologies and the technologies you mentioned in the first half of this year alone the capabilities had this platform are incredible.
We added the Salesforce Blockchain.
We added Salesforce Maps.
We added Einstein translation, Einstein Voice, Einstein Vision.
We have all these capabilities and they're accessible to everyone on our platform in a low-code way.
And what that means for our customers is it's easy for them to leverage these technologies to improve their customer experience.
And all those technologies you mentioned the challenges that we hear in the market is these customers are excited about these new technologies and what they could do for their customer experience.
But it's often cost prohibitive or too complex to do so.
And that's the value they see in our Customer 360 platform.
That's why as Marc mentioned Salesforce is the number two most appealing job according to GlassDoor.
In the first half of this year alone over 72,000 new job postings for Salesforce jobs were posted on just the top two job sites.
You're seeing the draw of this platform and you're seeing how empowering it is for – I think anyone in the world can become a Salesforce developer.
You could if you go on fill out after this call.
Operator Thank you.
And our next question will come from the line of Brad Zelnick from Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Brad Zelnick Thanks so much and congrats again on a fantastic quarter.
I'll throw this question out up for grabs and it's really just to dig in a little bit deeper on Service Cloud with the re-acceleration this quarter, just wondering if you could help unpack that a little bit.
You called out Field Service Lightning strength in your prepared remarks, but I'd love to hear any additional color in terms of competition win rates and also how you see the products coming together with ClickSoftware coming into the fold?
Thanks.
Mark Hawkins So, why don't I take that and then I think Bret will want to weigh-in as well from the product strategy perspective.
This way the digital transformation is really fueled by so many things that is the foundation of it is the 360 degree view of the customer and each of the elements of that 360 degree view of the customer important whether it's relative to the use case and the problem that you're trying to solve whether it's sales or service or marketing or commerce.
And service is just very powerful.
If you look at companies in a variety of industries they like to differentiate themselves by service and customer experience is a big component of that.
And field service is a big component of that.
So as we talk to these executives about the future of growth you can't have growth without the great customer experience and that starts with service.
So Bret, I'm sure you want to add to that as well.
Bret Taylor Yes.
I'll add to – I do think our customers are driving us here because service defines their brand.
But I also think it shows the power of this Customer 360 platform because all of these fundamental technology innovations we're investing in really I think benefits service in an unique way.
Obviously, with Einstein bots enabled customers to deploy frontline support using AI.
This past quarter, we added Einstein case routing, so we can route support cases that people have the best skill to provide the best customer experience at the right time.
You saw the growth in field service which we are really proud of.
It really shows how our investment in maps and geo location and mobility are all sort of converging to enable these customers to provide the right support to the right customers wherever they happen to be.
And so I really want to say that this is really what I view as the power of the platform.
We're doing so much leverage from our technology investments to enable the experience that Keith talked about.
Operator Thank you.
And our last question will come from the line of Jennifer Lowe with UBS.
Your line is now open.
Jennifer Lowe Great.
Thank you.
I wanted to circle back on some of the discussion earlier about going from international company to a global company and the addition of CEOs in a couple of particularly strategic markets?
And I'm curious as you add that role what sort of the mandate there?
What do you view as sort of core competencies that need to start by global leadership versus providing regional leadership with the flexibility to make the changes or run the business in a way that they see as most appropriate on the ground in that market?
Mark Hawkins Well, Jennifer, one of the important things of being a global company is to be able to think globally and think strategically and act locally.
And we want to empower our leaders in the field so that they can make decisions on behalf of the customers in front of the customers.
There's an expression that says, the best decisions are not made in the office.
They are made out in the field.
And by hiring these senior executives and cultivating and growing our other executives inside the company so that they're empowered to make these decisions.
We think this is a perfect way to skill [ph] a company.
With respect to being a global company versus an international company, kind of the key tenant of being a global is that you act the same, you behave the same, you execute the same no matter where you are all over the world, whether it is with one or many customers.
And as we bring in these senior executives, we're augmenting and enhancing an already incredible management team.
So we're super excited about these adds and challenges and important strategy for the future.
Operator Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes our question and answer session for today.
I'll now hand the call back over the company for any closing comments or remarks.
Marc Benioff Thanks everybody for participating in the call today.
And I specially want to thank all of our Ohana who just did a fantastic job this quarter and we couldn't be more pleased with the outcome, and John.
John Cummings Yes.
Thanks so much.
Thanks so much Marc.
And thanks for everyone for joining us today.
As Marc reminded everyone, go ahead and register for Dreamforce.
We look forward to seeing many of you there at our Annual Analyst Day.
And we'll look forward to giving you an update on our results in Q3.
Thank you so much.
Operator Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation on today's conference.
This does conclude our program and we may all disconnect.
Everybody have a wonderful day.